But no , they 're they 're this is where tour becomes

Now you have this I possible danger that somehow there 're certain constructions that people use when talking about a museum that they wouldn't talk about with a university and ,
So we would rather just ask have a bunch of people talk about the zoo ,
That 's what we 're gonna talk about t .
sometime , I have to talk to some subset of the people in this group , at least about what constructions I 'm looking for .

So What we 're gonna do today is two related things .
And And they 're r ready to roll .
and once Bhaskara has finished his classwork that 's where we 're gonna end up doing .
They 're just gonna select u , according to their preferences .
So , all I 'm saying is i th there 's there 's a question of what we 're trying t to accomplish .
It feels like forever when you 're doing it ,
, because then if you 're meeting somebody at the town hall , you 're not entering it usually ,
if you 're doing it for that purpose then it 's entertainment .
you 're you 're talking about rather than having the user decide this you 're supposed t we 're supposed to figure it out ?
Or , , if you 're going to the opera are you gonna l look for the best seats or the peanut gallery
, so I assume we 're going for the first interpretation ,
OK , so this is we 're gonna mainly work on with George .

Lots of pronunciations of th of the same thing are going to give you better data than l , a few pronunciations of lots more things .
There 's lots of bits where you don't really

, but this is part of the instructor 's job .
, this is why we did it , because when we gave them just three tasks for w part - A and three tasks for part - B a
That 's that 's part of th that 's not a destination reason , that 's " en passant , " right .
So is like " biking there " part of like " driving there " ,
And so the middle part is always the golden way ,

and this machine will use speech synthesis to produce that .
And the speech people , , are gonna do better if they if things come up repeatedly .
And that way you get the speech data of people saying " zoo " over and over again or whatever too .
nobody 's interested in that except for the speech people .

IE it 's either for sightseeing , for meeting people , for running errands , or doing business .
So , business is supposed to , be it like professional type ,
it might be a business man who 's using the system , who wants to go to some
He 's there to teach a course at the business school but he also is touring around

And here are the tasks to be implemented via our data collection .
mainly for Eva 's benefit , who probably has not heard about the data collection , .
That 's the data collection .
That was the the data collection in a nutshell .
And And for now the question is " How much of these decisions do we want to build in explicitly into our data collection ? "
And Fey is going to start collecting data ,
And then w go it may iterate on , further data collection to elicit
Some data I collected in a couple weeks for training recognizers and email way back when .

So One of the s steps that 's coming up real soon is to actually get subjects in here , and have them actually record like this .
these are what our subject 's going to have to fill out .
But it seems like since we since we are getting towards subject fifty subjects

But we 'll just be m working on it at intensity so it doesn't happen .
Technical we 'll do another day .
We 'll let 's let we 'll do that off - line , OK .
your suggestion is good , which is we 'll do a b a batch .
Whatever it is we 'll we 'll deal with it .
, " OK , we 'll go back to the hotel and then we 'll go off
" We 'll do it on when you say on that d day it means it 'll never happen .
And we 'll also as y as you 'll s further along we 'll get into business about " , you 're this is going over a meal time ,
So , if we all decide it 's a good idea for you to go then you 'll we 'll pay for it .

And so if you can think of any other high level tasks a tourist may do just always just m mail them to us and we 'll sneak them into the collection .
and that 's the way tourists do organize their lives .
Tourist needs food , badly
But a I as a tourist , I 'll just paying what 's what 's more or less is required .
, I will tell you the German tourist data .

What 's this idea of " next tour " ?
So so this tour is just like th the idea of current s round of touristness or whatever ,
Tour - tourists really do have different styles eating .

And we 're gonna start tomorrow at three ?
So there th i in in I th I 'm that if that 's what you did then they would start telling you about that , and then you could get into various things about ordering , if you wanted .
It , , I am just today , next couple days gonna start really diving into this data .
But anyway , so it 's a good idea to start with the relatively straight forward res just response system .
And then if we want to get them to start doing multiple step planning with a whole bunch of things and then organize them
and we 're gonna start thinking a about what constructions we want to elicit .

, so let 's s see I th that from one point of view , , , all these places are the same ,
from my point of view I 'm I 'm trying to care about the syntax , so

And then , , they could be alternate versions of the same If you wanted data on different constructions .
, and Though for us , constructions are primarily semantic ,
But that probably we 're gonna try to look at it as , s what semantic constructions d do we do we want them to do direc
, like just again , looking at this one thing , , I saw y things from as general as argument structure constructions .
, so there 's a variety of different sorts of constructions
so the idea is first of all I misspoke when I said we thought you should do the constructions .
And that 's gonna be much more useful than having all of the clausal constructions and nothing else , or like that .
So that the trick is going to be t to take this and pick a some lattice of constructions ,
No , we can w throw in an " Out of Film " construction if you want to ,

and I told it to stay on forever and ever , but if it 's not plugged in it just doesn't obey my commands .
And these are the data tasks where w we can assume the person would like to enter , view or just approach the thing .
It would be challenging , in a sense , to try to make it so complex that they even really should schedule , or to plan it , , a more complex thing in terms of
and see whether we wanna make it more complex or not , depending on what results we 're getting .
, OK , so let 's let 's take let 's I
although I it 's only ten minutes each ,
That w maybe one thing we should do is go through this list and select things that are categories and then o offer only one member of that category ?
That 's what I was suggesting for the first round , .
So since people gonna still pick something , we 're not gonna get any significant amount of redundancy .
What is the the English co cognate if you want , for " Sankt Nimmerlandstag " ?
I want to meet someone somewhere , which be puts a very heavy constraint on the " EVA "
do you wanna stop for a meal or pick up food ? "
I 've only ev was there ten years ago , for a day , so I don't remember , but .
, I once had to write a a charter , a carter for a student organization .
Should it be the easiest route , even if it 's a b little bit longer ?
But it 's not popular it 's only p only
And I me it would be completely out of the question to really do more than , say , like , I , ten , over the summer ,
He - he 's just in a conference somewhere and he is just swinging through town .
And m making me incapable of going to NAACL , for which I had funding .

And we 're still l looking for a room on the sixth floor because they stole away that conference room . behind our backs .
So , alright , so let 's go let 's go back then , to the chart with all the decisions and , and see how we 're doing .
, probably between stops back at the hotel .
, my visit to Prague there were some nights where I never went back to the hotel ,
Or so , y but there 's th but definitely a back - off position to asking .
Just talking into a box and not hearing anything back .

, it 's easy enough to set that up if that 's your expectation .
And hopefully you can also try to find out , , sooner or later in the course of the summer what we can expect to get from the discourse that might , or the
Right , but we 're not expecting Keith to actually build a parser .
We are expecting Johno to build a parser ,

And then they call this computer system that works perfectly , and understands everything .
The comp , the computer system sits right in front of you ,
And And then after three tasks the system breaks down .
And says " the system broke down but let 's continue . "
but s th point is to y to build a system that 's got everything in it that might happen you do one thing .
So are we gonna masquerade the system as this as you said simple response system ,
so , where we can also , once we have everything up and running , show the tremendous , insane inferencing capabilities of our system .

how people phrase different intentions more or less ,
Fo - v people with the phrase them
But it 's more the how do people phrase these planning requests ?
and if th if they use prepositional phrases or subordinate clauses or whatever ,

and so for , , Keith and people worrying about what constructions people use , we have some i we have some ways to affect that the dialogues go .
people trying to do more complex sets of things .
, I s can probably schedule ten people , , whenever .
And we would be ultimately more interested in getting all the possible ways of people asking , , for different things with or with a computer .
, , these are all f people off campus s from campus so far ,
And I wrote in there " En - Enough " people have to be there .
And it was hotly debated , but people with me that everybody probably has a good feeling whether it was a farce , a joke , or whether there were enough people .
And if you go to Turkey , you will find when people go shopping , they will say " How much cheese do you want ? "

I 've looked at one of the files
, now , I have looked the data , and it 's pre it 's actually at least to an amateur , quite redundant .
I I did scan it at first and noticed that , and then looked in detail at one of them .

And we 're also , in the same process , going to work with Fey on what there should be in the dialogues .
It 's actually like five minutes dialogue .
so you can do f , f have a complete story ov of s of some piece of dialogue .
This is their standard demo dialogue , which is , , what the system survives and nothing but that .
And I tacked on a little paragraph about the fact that the whole world calls that module a dis disc dialogue manager ,

And And then they gonna have to f choose from one of these tasks , which are listed here .
And that can be done , to say , " OK now we 've picked these six tasks . "

So , we 'll take care of David Johnson .
So you can s you can be really make it as cheap as possible , or you can say " I want , er , , I don't care "
" I want to go there and I don't care if it 's really hard . "
And . if I care about it being open , accessible or not , I don't think there 's any middle ground there .
like Nancy did in some of the er these papers where you do enough of them so you can go from top to bottom

So if you ask " How do I get to the castle " then a m s several seconds later it 'll come out of here " In order to get to the castle you do "
And , so the zoo , and the university and the castle , et cetera . are all big - ish things that have different parts to them , and one of them might be fine .
and assume that will that the constructions that they use there will give us everything we need to know about these zoo , castle , whatever type things , these bigger places .
They just wouldn't be able to choose both zoo and say , touring the castle .
and " tour the university , castle or zoo " ,

And we get the idea what people do when they s think they speak to a machine and what people say when they think they speak to a human , or know , or assume they speak to a human .
David and Jane and Lila are working on that as we speak .
Or do you mean like what kinds of things we want to get people talking about ? Semantically speaking , ?

So what I 've tried to do here is list all the decision nodes that we have identified on this side .
we can see that , , we have created these tasks before we came up with our decision nodes
We can change the tasks slightly if we feel that we should have data for e for every decision node
But we are gonna worry about all the decisions and the things that pert that contribute to them .
So the on the left are decision nodes , and discreet values .
So if we 're right , you can get by with just this middle column worth of decisions ,
And one just s has to watch which also final decision node so it doesn't make sense t to figure out whether he wants to enter , view or approach an object if he never wants to go there in the first place .
But we should just make a decision whether we feel that they want to use some substantial or some fraction of their time .

And analogously , here we have our EVA intention .
Analogously the same on the object information
so there 's a lot of things where we have no analogous tasks , and that may or may not be a problem .
No , he , he has been solving all our problems or is wonderful ,

That was cut by fifty percent .
That goes with the " energy depletion " function , blech .
And I looked at the other ones and they always said ten percent of the student body has to be present at their general meeting otherwise it 's not a
And so , exactly which ones will partly depend on your research interests and a bunch of other things .
And hey , that 's that 's already covering eighty percent of the system 's functionality .
Ye - Right , but it 's not covering eighty percent of the intellectual interest .

we could call the z see or , people who visit the zoo
we could s call it " Visit the zoo tomorrow " ,
, , I usually visit zoos , or I usually visit castles , or I usually
And also Rainer M Malaka is going to be visiting us shortly ,

Analogously this would be the reason node and the timing node and .
and whatever we specify for the so - called " Keith node " , or the discourse , what comes from the parser , construction parser , will contribute to the D and the ontology to the sub - O node .
like I I we 're trying to limit the detail of our ontology or types of places that someone could go ,
see this ontology node is probably something that I will try to expand .
Once we have the full ontology API , what can we expect to get from the ontology ?

so trying to im implant the intention of going to a place now , going to a place later on the same tour ,
or trying to plant the intention of going sometime on the next tour , or the next day or whenever .
So all tours b a tour happens only within one day ?
so whether that counts as a two - day tour or not we 'll have to think .

Commented and what they 're about and the properties we may give them .
now draw straight lines from these to here , meaning it g goes where the sub - S
I 'm also interested in th in this " property " line here ,

, one is a planner The other , it give you instructions on the spot
But th but you did say something important , which is that you can probably keep yourself fairly occupied with the simple cases for quite a while .
And par , and part of the system design is that if it looks to be important and you can't figure it out , then you ask .
And if no part of the system ever comes up with the idea that this could be important , no planner is ever gonna ask for it .
Jerry pushed this idea from the very beginning , that it 's part of the understanding business to make a good question of what 's important in this general picture , what you need t

T to build a system that had the most data on a relatively confined set of things , you do something else .
So , the system could say , " , we 'd like to set up your program for two days in Heidelberg ,
but on the other hand the system doesn't have any public transport This the planner system doesn't have any public transport in it yet .
H How much of Heidelberg can you get around by public transport ?

let 's go to our favorite endpoint one
, it is already with this it got pretty with this setup and that particular subject it got pretty complex .
So I th that seems pretty straight forward .
Endpoint is pretty clear .
Alright , so So the order of things is that , Robert will clean this up a little bit , although it looks pretty good .
, the hope is that the parser itself is , , pretty robust .

the second person is is was faced with exactly this setup .
Like one person gets the version with the zoo as a choice , and the other person gets the
So this granularity would suffice , w if we say the person
Because the person selling the cheese knows , , that person has two kids and , a husband that dislikes cheese , so this is enough .
Whatever that again means , er or do you does the person wanna rough it ?
Or if you 're an extreme sport person , .

one of them is to work on the semantics of the belief - net which is going to be the main inference engine for thi the system making decisions .
and finally we have to do some technical work on the actual belief relations and presumably estimates of the probabilities and .
and it 's not all that many , and it 's perfectly feasible technically to build belief - nets that will do that .
we get to the belief - net just focusing on the g Go - there node .
And that we can actually infer them to a significant de degree , or we ask .
Robert and Eva and Bhaskara are gonna actually build a belief - net that , , has CPT 's and , , tries to infer this from various kinds of information .

and my temptation for the data gathering would be to ,
so if it 's one service , one luxury item , , one big - ish place , and and so on , then my is that the data is going to be easier to handle .
but I I 'm I m my temptation is to go for simpler .
And a I w think the data would be nicer if we get temporal references .
off the top of my head it kinda seems like you would probably just want , , richer data ,

And decisions are going to turn out to be parameter choices for calls on other modules .
so f the natural language understanding thing is , we think gonna only have to choose parameters , but , a fairly large set of parameters .
Th - the user can always s say it , but it 's just we hand over these parameters if we make if we have a feeling that they are important .
If you wanna simulate it , , what parameters would you need for the simulation ?

, if our goal is to really be able to handle a whole bunch of different , then throwing harder situations at people will get them to do more linguistic more interesting linguistic .
for a linguist that means to do completely and perfectly .
OK , Because we do wanna get them r u perfectly but we 're gonna have to do a first cut at a lot of them to see how they interact .

One of which is figure out what all the choices are , which we 've done a fair amount .
Then we need to figure out what influences its choices
there are there 're different things where you have a ch choice ,
Is that roughly the equivalent of what I 've seen in English or is it

I j I e We don't have any huge time pressure .
You just spend the whole time at U Fleku ,
, they wanna do it so badly that they are willing to spend the necessary and plus time .
And y , if we feel that they wanna do nothing but that thing then , , we should point out that to the planner , that they probably want to use all the time they have .
And , Timing , , Length would definitely be part of it ,

And now all w that 's left to do then is the CPG 's , the conditional probabilities , for the likelihood of a person having enough money , actually wanting to go a place if it costs , this or that .
But i it seem that there is a difference between going to see something , and things like " exchange money " or " dine out "
Exchange money is an errand ,
Little money , some money , lots of money ?
but I decide k how much money I 'm willing to lose .

Are you gonna have the audio on the web site ?
Until we reach the gigabyte thing and David Johnson s ki kills me . And we 're gonna put it on the web site . .
OK , so that 'll be on the web page .
, these don't necessarily have to be more complex than like the " Out of " construction in the BCP paper where it 's just like , , half a page on each one .
V a half a page is what we 'd like .

Very sketchy , simplified map .
What ab What do you have in mind in terms of socializing ?
But , - this is actually a conversation you and I have to have about your thesis fantasies , and how all this fits into that .
He 's g he 's hoping to do this for his masters ' thesis s by a year from now .
there 's particular , fixed expressions , or semi - fixed expressions like " Get " plus path expression for , , " how d ho how do I get there ? " ,

OK , so Eva , co could you read your numbers ?
The reading is out of these tasks more or less imply that the user wants to go there , sometime or the other .
Then then they will read a task where lots of German words are thrown in between .
And and they have to read isolated proper names
I 'd just listen to the beginning part and the person was just reading off her script .
The reading task is a lot shorter .

, but th the I don't I 'm not really interested in " Phase planning " capabilities .
Let 's plan next Monday , OK , to have a review of what we have so far .
, we actually biking should be should be a separate point because we have a very strong bicycle planning component .
, the action planner guy has wrote has written a p lengthy proposal on how he wants to do the action planning .
And I responded to him , also rather lengthy , how he should do the action planning .
Action planning meaning " Discourse Modeling " ?

, Robert , do you have any way to turn off your screensaver on there so that it 's not going off every ,
So what Robert kindly did , is to lay out a table of the kinds of things that might come up ,
So , and this actually turned out to be pretty key , because having specified these this intermediate level and noticing that everything that happens here
but then it turns out to be three minutes and forty five seconds .
But , Then again , this may turn out to be insufficient for our purposes .

Twenty - two million to fly to International Space Station , .
either they 're the symphony type or opera type or the tourist site guide type or the nightclub disco type person and they say " this is on that " go to big - ish place " ,
and I looked at one of them which was about ten sentences , found fifteen , twenty different construction types that we would have to look for and so on

And depending on what Fey provokes them to say , we 'll get information on different things .
And Fey comes on the phone as a human operator .
and if we can keep it up to a five four - ish per week rate , we may even reach the one hundred before Fey t takes off to Chicago .

And And Fey has some thirty subjects lined up ?
Maybe I suggest we make some fine tuning of these , get run through ten or so subjects
Fey , How long is it gonna be till you have ten subjects ?
Because I have not been able to dig out all the out of the m ta thirty D V

Six different things they think they would do if they were in Heidelberg or traveling someplace
OK , we gotta we gotta disallow traveling to zoos and castles at the same time ,
, like my father is about to travel to Prague .

And what w what happened is that design - wise I 'd n noticed that we can we still get a lot of errors from a lot of points to one of these sub Go - there User Go - there Situation nodes .
then the situation nodes contributing to the endpoint situation node , which contributes to the endpoint and .
we could lis just sit here and listen to it all .
probably , based on the utterance we on the situation we can conclude
whatever you need in order to , be able to then , , by hand , , explain , some fraction of the utterances .
We could sit down and think of the ideal speaker utterances ,

if it is charging tons of dollars for admission or its gonna g cost a lot of t e
, you can buy another disk for two hundred dollars ,
So we 'll buy a disk .

Maybe it was too fast plunging in there , because j we have two updates .
So she can copy sentences into a window , or type really fast
and then , what one would expect is that the sentence types would their responses would tend to be grouped according to the activity , you would expect .
, we could also sor have the analogen of o our sample sentences ,
the ideal sentences where we have complete construction coverage and , , they match nicely .

whether the user is thrifty or not , and what his budget is currently like , is going to result in some financial state of the user .
l y you gave me those dozens of files
Those files that you sent me are the user side of some interaction with Fey ?

like at , " attend a theater , symphony or opera " is a group ,
And , the movie theater is probably also e is a " attend " et cetera .

This is the speaker information form .
The release form is over there in that box .
drive there , " walk there " or " be driven " , which means bus , taxi , BART .
wants to drive there , walk there , or use some other form of transportation .
I would I would lump it with " walk " because hills matter .

