that 's another thing " OK , here 's a another minimal way of tackling this " .
Alright , but that 's but that 's OK , and it 's again a one minimal extension of the existing things .

then you could say " Aha , let 's have these three factors " ,
there 's Let 's say there 's a cont
Alright , so that 's that 's the thesis level
It 's unfortunate also that English has got rid of most of its spatial adverbs
Parsers can pick those up but the with the spatial adverbs , they have a tough time .

It - it 's his it 's his cute romantic comedy .
That 's his cute romantic comedy , .

However , we may run into a problem with a reading task there .
we regard this as an exercise in thinking about the problem
they 'd say " , that 's no problem
But that 's not It 's not the immediate problem .
And that the that 's the hardest problem .
So , that 's the hardest problem at the moment is
Looking just looking at this data , listening to it , what can we get out of it in terms of our problem ,

It 's You 're gonna l learn .
I 'm completely clueless , but I 'm willing to learn .
so this is all just fine in terms of h her learning things she 's gonna need to know , to do her career .

It 's , it 's great is , , as one step toward toward where we wanna go .
So this may be a a process of two to three steps before we get our vector , that we feed into the belief - net ,
And pushing it one step further , when you get to construction grammar and , what you 'd like to be able to do is say you have this parser which is much fancier than the parser that comes with SmartKom ,

, as I say there is this s set of people next door , it 's not hard to
We could talk to the people who run it and see if they have a way that they could easily tell people that there 's a task , pays ten bucks ,
it 's hard for me to imagine how he could get around that .
And that 's something the SmartKom people themselves would
, the actual what people wanna do or what they 're referring to and ,

When you read the numbers it reminded me of beat poetry .
That 's what of when of beat poetry .
There 's a part wh there 's parts when he 's doing beat poetry .

Approach construction should be activated , IE just pasted in .
But it 's not construction there , it 's action .
i that actually uses constructions and is able to tell from this construction that there 's something about the intent
there the land the construction implies the there 's a con this thing is being viewed as a container .
So just from this local construction that you 're gonna hafta treat it as a container you might as go off and get that information .

and what you did is add some rules of the style that are already there that say " If it 's of type " Landmark " , then you take you 're gonna take a picture of it . "

Student - type worker ,
, she 's un she 's not a student ,
This is what I gave her , so this is h how to get to the student prison ,
She also agrees that if it 's all just gonna be students the data is gonna be less valuable because of that

Add extra properties ,
, no problem to add types to the ont "
And it 's perfectly OK to insist that , , th , they add up to one ,
should we a add then the " what 's this ? " domain ?
Then we also have the " what 's this ? " domain , where we get some slightly different

You just do " this is what we did , and here 's the thing , and here 's some of the dialogue and . "
, Discourse was related to whether they had asked about open hours
where the things were I maybe if thi if things were related to business or some other
and we get relations out of it and once we have them , we can use that information to look in the dialogue history ,

Hey , you 're not supposed to be drinking in here dude .
, that was already anticipated by some people suggested that if we just have bullets here , they 're gonna not they 're subjects are probably not gonna going to follow the order .
Now , if that 's all you 're doing , then you can get the types from the ontology ,
because that 's all you 're all you 're using is this type the types in the ontology and you 're done .
what you 're having is the values rather than the variable .
, eventually we 're gonna want a whole range of them .
because they 're really fancy then , in for these kinds of analysis .
, but they 're they 're easier for parsers .
so that we have so that this is the representational formats we 're we 're talking about that are independent of the problem ,

so what we 'd be generating would be a reference to a semantic like parameters for the for the X - schema ?
And that there 's there 's some important generalities that you 're getting ,
in independent of whether it about what is this or where is it , that you could tell from the construction , you could pull out deep semantic information which you 're gonna use in a general way .
Independent of what the goal is , and independent of what the surrounding language is .

because I was I took I tried to conceptually do what you were talking about with the nodes that you could expand out
So it 's possible that we could do something like a summary node of some sort that
We 'd have the summary nodes like

I made these dummy nodes called Trajector - In and Trajector - Out that would isolate the things related to the trajector .
And then I said , the trajector would be the person in this case probably .
and there 's a language for talking about trajectors ,

And this , and in case no you hadn't seen it , this is what Litonya looked at during the while taking the while partaking in the data collection .
So in that case , the sum we 'd have we
And this is about as much as we can do if we don't w if we want to avoid a huge combinatorial explosion where we specify " OK , if it 's this and this but that is not the case " , and , it just gets really messy .
, that 's a that 's another baseline case ,
So I y I 'm just there saying eee you I know how to do any individual case ,

, I 'm going back to visit my parents this weekend ,
So you 're going to the west Bay then ?
Let 's slide back up again
there 're ways to back off on the purity of your Bayes - net - edness .
given that we 're not gonna screw with the technology and just always use orthodox Bayes - nets , then we have a knowledge engineering little problem of how do we do that .

and maybe a first version of a module , if you wanna call it that , that you can ask ,
we come up with a code for a module that we call the " cognitive dispatcher " , which does nothing ,
there 's this is maybe something that this module can do , something that this module can do

So first of all , I agree that we should hire Fey , and start paying her .
Probably pay for the time she 's put in as .
, so , Robert has thought about this problem f for a long time , cuz he 's had these examples kicking around ,
the probabilities of both of them happening at the same time

, this is not a working Bayes - net .
So , so if you if we made if we wanted to make it into a real Bayes - net ,
This is th the second version and I look at this maybe just as a , , a whatever , UML diagram or , , as just a screen shot , not really as a Bayes - net as John Johno said .
And and here is exactly where what 's gonna be replaced with our Bayes - net ,
, no the Bayes the Bayes - nets
The Bayes - nets will be dec specific for each decision .
But what I 'd like to be able to do is to have the way that you extract properties , that will go into different Bayes - nets , be the general .

but partly I did want it to get the linguists involved in some of this issue about what the task is and all , what the dialogue is , and what 's going on linguistically ,
maybe we can get some of the linguists sufficiently interested that they 'll help us with it ,
, other linguists , if you 're a linguist ,
and see if we can find a way to present this to this linguists group that is helpful to them .
see what 's the really interesting question is can you use deep cognitive linguistics to get powerful generalizations .

How much is a t a bus ticket and a transfer
Travel constraints would be something like , maybe they said they can they only wanna take a bus like that ,
so that would determine whether we 'd could take we would be telling them to go to the bus stop or versus walking there directly .
Now that we know that it 's a bus trip ,
we didn't We didn't need to know beforehand , how long the bus trip takes or whatever , but now that we know that 's the way it 's coming out then we gotta go find out more .

it 's probably going to be this Sunday , but we 're working with the weather here
and , so i if we give her even more , instruments to work with the results are gonna be even better .
So , I don't I don't think it 's worth a lot of work , particularly on your part , to to make a big presentation .
i This this is not a complaint , this is a promise to do more work .

Agent , , " Agent " , whatever you wan wanna say , ,
And there 's an issue about whether there will be that 'll be the same agent and the one that then goes off and carries out the decision ,
My is it 'll be the same basic agent that can go off and get information , run it through a c this belief - net that

The other thing that 's real funny , I 'll spoil it for you .
and then as she does it she 'll she 'll learn @ @ .
So , I my is she 'll be r quite happy to take on that job .
And and there 'll probably be self - selection to some extent .
and it 'll throw the dice for you ,
So they 'll they presumably there 'll be a thread or process that

and where we think the belief - nets fit in
So , what I did for this is , a pedagogical belief - net
, so the pro The immediate problem is back t to what you were what you are doing with the belief - net .
, we have a d a technical problem with the belief - nets that we don't want all the com
but we also could do it if we have a a belief - net interface .
So the belief - net takes as input , a vector ,
turn a crank in the belief - net ,
that generalize over those problems , and are , t of a higher quality than an any actual whatever belief - net , or " X " that we may use for the decision making , ultimately .

And , another suggestion , by Liz , was that we , through subjects , switch the tasks .
And my suggestion is we keep the wizard , because she did a wonderful job ,
And also if she 's willing to take on the job of organizing all those subjects and that would be wonderful .
I 'm I 'm happy to do that .

I should say the system was supposed to break down and then these were the remaining three tasks that she was going to solve , with a human
One time , pretending to be a system ,
one time , to pretending to be a human , which is actually not pretending .
. Isn't this obvious when it says " OK now you 're talking to a human " and then the human has the same voice ?
And , she 's actually she 's going to graduate school in a an experimental paradigm ,
the fact that we can pretend we have one , make a dummy until we get the real one ,

this is the information on the low sunken castle , and the amphitheater that never came up ,
I 'm just saying that I 'm gonna hafta do some first principles thinking about this .
So all sorts of different tasks and all sorts of different ways of expressing them use a lot of the same mechanism for pulling out what are the fundamental things going on .
so there 's all sorts of things you might ask that involve the castle as a container
and you 'd like to have this orthogonal so that anytime the castle 's referred to as a container , you crank up the appropriate .

this was the first three tasks she had to master after she called the system ,
That is something that Fey actually thought of a in the last second that sh the system should introduce itself , when it 's called .
loosely called " Constructicon " .
, " approach " , you called it , this time .
which can then be applied at what we would call the simulation or action end .
Johno , actually , does not allow us to call them " intentions " anymore .

my idea on that was , partly we 'll talk about system for the computer scientists ,
So my idea on Wednesday is partly to
But then , the other thing is we should give the computer scientists some idea of what 's going on with the system design ,

is when he 's he works in a coffee shop ,
Wonder if these things ever emit a very , like , piercing screech right in your ear ?
Then we discussed in our pre - edu EDU meeting how to ask the ontology , what to ask the ontology
see what we 'd like to do , and this has been implicit in the discussion , is to do this in such a way that you get a lot of re - use .

And then the bottom layer is just the Mode .
, there 's just one more node and it says " Mode " which is the decision between the
So we 'd have to get rid of this and connect these things directly to the Mode .
is , if we just do this , we could wind up with a huge , combinatoric input to the Mode thing .
So , if you have some bottom line decision about which mode ,

We have an action that he wants to go from somewhere , which is some type of object , to someplace .
, we 'll add some action type , which in this case is " Approach " and could be , , more refined in many ways .
and it will give us then an action type of the type " Enter " .
if this pla if the object type here is a m is a landmark , it 'll be " Vista " .
we have to add , , not too much about object types and ,
Every public place you enter , and statue you want to go as near as possible .
This decides whether it 's an whether action
and then collect sub - objects and then recombine them and put them together .
, is , , she actually m said , she never s just spoke about entering , she just wanted to get someplace , and she said for buying .

and I grouped things according to what how they would fit in to image schemas that would be related .
This will be a job to find ways of writing down Image schema , X - schema , constructions , in some form ,
Aspects of the X - schema to add .
Also it strikes me that we m may want to approach the point where we can try to find a , a specification for some interface , here that takes the normal M - three - L , looks at it .
But , I 'm the " what 's this ? " questions also create some interesting X - schema aspects .

and he 's like " excuse me I ordered the large espresso ? "
So when they have task - one with the computer , the next person should have task - one with a human , and .
, we have to refine the tasks more and more , which we haven't done , so far , in order to avoid this rephrasing ,
And I told her that we gonna figure out a meeting time in the near future to refine the tasks and s look for the potential sources to find people .
this is just in order to exemplify what we can do very , very easily is ,

And " usefulness " is basi means is that an institutional facility like a town hall like that 's not something that you 'd visit for tourist 's tourism 's sake or whatever .
and so we have some information there that the town hall is both a a building and it has doors and like this ,
were any of these things that are part of the town hall as an institution mentioned ? ,
were any of these that make the town hall a building mentioned ? ,

and he 's sitting there on this couch and they bring him this massive cup of espresso ,
because we also want to combine it with some barbecue activity where we just fire it up and what whoever brings whatever , can throw it on there .
b But an architecture like this would also enable us maybe to throw this away and replace it with something else , or whatever ,
No it 's worth it to ass to meet here to bring this , and assume that something may come up that we wanna look at .

So . On Friday we had our wizard test data test and these are some of the results .
Ch - ch - ch .
And that 's that would be the really pretty result .
also , , not in the sentence " How do you get there ? " was pretty standard .

tiramisu tasting contest this weekend .
So you 're trying to decide who 's the best taster of tiramisu ?
. There was a a fierce argument that broke out over whose tiramisu might be the best
and so we decided to have a contest where those people who claim to make good tiramisu make them ,
and then we got a panel of impartial judges that will taste do a blind taste and then vote .

You ever seen " So I married an axe murderer " ?
There 's no female equivalent of
Oop - bo - doop - boop .
and use that to actually get , detailed route planning .

And , in terms of World Knowledge , this would just be like opening and closing times of things , the time of day it is , and whatnot .
And the other trick , which is not a technical trick , it 's a knowledge engineering trick , is to make the n each node sufficiently narrow that you don't get this combinatorics .
But then but i it still some knowledge design to do , about i how do you wanna break this up , what really matters .
Actually , you 'd need a lot of world knowledge .

And then there were the things with the source and the path and the goal .
And the two that I came up with were Trajector - landmark and then Source - path - goal as initial ones .
this is a way of playing with this abs Source - path - goal trajector exp abstraction and sh displaying it in a particular way .
I whi which is what we see here , which is the Vista , Schema , Source , Path , Goal , whatever .
So . What you 're trying to get out of this deep co cognitive linguistics is the fact that w if about source , paths and goals , and nnn all this , that a lot of this is the same , for different tasks .

and whether they have somehow marked that is was the final destination .
, not necessarily in th in this meeting , but to try to informally think about what the decision variables are .
So that if you decided that you could characterize the decision as a trade - off between three factors , whatever they may be ,
and maybe a binary version f for each , or some relatively compact decision node just above the final one .
a deterministic rule for every property
we have this silly interface and we have the rules that are as banal as of we just saw , and we have our content .
Right and then , once we 've made the decision , how do we put that into the content ?
There will be rules , but they aren't rules that come to final decisions , they 're rules that gather information for a decision process .

because I integrated this into the existing SmartKom system in the same way as much the same way we can have this this thing .
, and certainly you can add rules like that to the existing SmartKom system .
So the mistake would have make a mistake the system would have made a mistake here .

so where , even though w we don't tell the person " ask blah - blah - blah "
And then I did similar things for our net to with the context and the discourse and whatnot ,
, so , in terms of Context , what we had currently said was whether they were a businessman or a tourist of some other person .
, Prosody I don't really I 'm not really what prosody means , in this context ,
So , the hardest problem is how are you going to get this information from some combination of the what the person says and the context and the ontology .

but whether the where I 'm currently at is a landmark might have a bearing on whether
or the " landmark - iness " of where I 'm currently at .
Ev - every landmark you take a picture of ,
so like landmark - ness and usefulness ,
and there she was talking about looking at pictures that are painted inside a wall on walls ,

actually , I , I might have added these cuz I don't think we talked too much about the source in the old one
Similar things as the source except they also added whether the entity was closed
And then , although we haven't worried about this yet , you might wanna worry about something that would go to the GIS
I 'm not a I 'm not op particularly opposed to adding that or any other task ,

, so we could isolate them or whatever in terms of the top layer .
cuz this is really just the three layer net , we wanna b make it expand it out into more layers ?

but you have to be comfortable reading relatively complicated .
And the rules we want to throw away completely .
I confess , I 'm still not completely comfortable with the overall story .

, , we have we have the concept of what their intention was , whether they were trying to tour or do business or whatever ,
So instead of in instead it should really be just be " intention " as a node instead of " intention business " or " intention tour " .
and then it would have values , , " Tour " , " Business " , or " Hurried " .
what was going through my mind when I did it was someone could both have a business intention and a touring intention

And then the question would be if those are the things that you care about , can you make a relatively compact way of getting from the various inputs to the things you care about .
But the that , it just is a is a visual aid for thinking about these things which has comple clearly have to be specified m more carefully
What you 'd really like is the same thing you 'd always like which is that you have a intermediate representation which looks the same o over a bunch of inputs and a bunch of outputs .

I actually , even though Liz was kind enough to offer to be the first subject , I felt that she knew too much ,
so I asked Litonya . just on the spur of the moment , and she was kind enough to serve as the first subject .
they still try , or at least Litonya tried to repeat as much of that text as possible .
or whether they asked about where the entrance was or the admission fee , along those lines .
, , Liz also asks whether we 're gonna have presentations every time .

, the Parse would be what verb they chose ,
And and Bhaskara and I was talking about this a little earlier today
. Let me just mention something that I don't want to pursue today
I slipped a paper to Bhaskara and about Noisy - OR 's and Noisy - MAXes

So , this is what she saw as part of as for instr introduction ,
. Now , I signed us up for the Wednesday slot , and part of what we should do is this .
but it looks of complect object trees and decides how are there parts missing that need to be filled out ,
So maybe this is actually some useful tool that we can use to rewrite it , and get this part ,

. Johno pointed out that we have maybe a grammatical gender problem there with wizard .
I wasn't wasn't whether wizard was the correct term for " not a man " .

in the sense that she responded quite nicely to things that were not asked for ,
and then maybe how they modified it , in the sense of whether they said " I need to get there quickly " or whatever .
We could actually , y draw it in a different way , in the sense that it would make it more abstract .
The , she w she was definitely good in the sense that she showed us some of the weaknesses

I tried to go for the EE Cummings feeling ,
Seems like you could put a s magic special ingredient in , so that everyone know which one was yours .
and you wanted to specialize it to these three ones , then you would have to supply the parameters .

