It 's a hard puzzle .
But that 's g that 's , as far as tell , it 's it 's putting together two real hard problems .
And sometimes it 's actually easier to solve two hard problems than one
There 's a really hard problem
, I 'll just pick a piece of the problem and then just push the hard into the center and say it 's Robert 's .
cuz it 's hard enough .
, cuz i it 's As , it 's real hard and if w if we

Or in some cases , it 's it 's quite definitely
In which case we w we can just say that they 're the effects or the bindings .

Now , But Ro - Robert 's right , that to determine that , OK ? you may want to go through a th thesaurus
But but what 's Robert 's saying is ,
So , it 's very likely that Robert 's thesis is going to be along these lines ,
We have many jobs for you , Ro - Robert .
So consequently don't I get to decide then that it 's Robert 's job ?
OK , whate What Robert 's saying is that

OK . , this is highly relevant to someone 's thesis .
and the local rules are if it 's your thesis , you get to decide how it 's done .
OK . So if , if this is , if this becomes part of your thesis , you can say , hey we 're gonna do it this way , that 's the way it 's done .
It 's always me when it 's someone 's thesis .
, he said he 's gonna f finish his thesis by then .
, but it he the decisions I made wer had to do with my thesis .
This is the first time I 've seen a thesis proposal change .

But that 's some conversion program ?

Anyway , w let 's talk separately about how t
OK , so that 's a that 's a separate issue .
, let 's let 's talk after Friday the twenty - ninth .
And then , w I would talk to you and figure out everything , that , see if they 're consistent .
Someday we also have to we should probably talk about the other side of the " where is X " construction ,

It 's a it 's like a game , but it 's for , like , dancing .
Hard to It 's like karaoke , but for dancing ,
, definitely . They have , like , places instead of like , instead of karaoke bars now that have , like , DDR ,
, , I didn't until I started hanging out with this friend , who 's like " , , bring over the DDR if you want . "

Tha - that 's the part I didn't understand .
And if we if the formalism is good , then we should be able to have , , moderate scale thing .
Right . So . Right . So thing That 's part of why we want the formalism ,
Part of what was missing were markings of all sorts that weren't in there ,
But that 's part of the formalism

Cuz it 's That starts counting from zero
And it looks to me like we 're now at a good point to do something start working on something really hard .
, this is this is , speaking of hard problems , this is a very good time , to start trying to make explicit where construal comes in
And it 's a it 's a perfectly fine place to start .

It - it 's just like why the generation ma the presentation manager is now working ?
so it should be feasible to set them up in such a way that if you 've got the past tense and the present tense and each of those is a separate , belief structure that they do their inferences with just the couplings that are appropriate .
, between let 's say between the past and the present ,
if it 's got , let 's say one in , , different tenses
So it won't be , like , a for semi - formal presentation of my proposal .
We 'll make a presentation of your propo of your proposal .

is that it actually transfers from head to head .
l let 's , let 's have that as a goal anyway .
It it might even be interesting then to say that I should be forced to , pull some of the ideas that have been floating in my head out of the , out of the top hat
, so there was like , , m in my head the goal to have like an intermediate version , like , everything I know .
but that 's not where our heads were at in these meetings .

Here 's my plan for today .
Bed014Cdialogueact644	157354	157383	C	Professor	s^e%-:s%-	-1	0	I wanna
Here 's my plan for tomorrow . "
, or , in the morning I 'm planning t to go shopping ,
, tal so I 'm talking about shopping
it 's like I g The other thing is , whether you have a m user model that has , , whatever , a current plan , whatever , plans that had been discussed ,
It 's - it 's a coincidence that he can't do couldn't do it today here .

there was this , thing that Nancy to in a in a weak moment this morning that
Let 's call them constraints , around which one has to
Anyway , , so let 's let 's for the moment call it that until we think of something better .
He actually brought a clone called Stepping Selection ,

So there 's all the problems that the linguists know about , about mental spaces , and the cognitive linguists know about ,
One is the linguistic part of what are the couplings
like " This make , I 'm going to pretend I 'm a linguist who has nothing to do with this .
so , , he 's like a relatively friendly linguist

, there 's good news from Johno .
I was just gonna say , though , that , , there was , out of a meeting with Johno came the suggestion that " , could it be that the meaning constraints really aren't used for selection ? "

That 's how of our continuing interaction .
for each e entity . We look it up check whether any of these were mentioned and then activate the corresponding nodes on the discourse side .
But Keith suggested that a much cleaner way would be is , , to keep track of the discourse in such a way that you if that something like that ha has been mentioned before , this just a continues to add up ,
so it could just keep track of how long it 's been since something 's been mentioned , and automatically load it in .
And so it could be that when another , en tourist entity gets mentioned , you
, and and the simple idea is that it 's on it 's only for m for the current , tourist e entity of instre interest .
That 's fine . So we might continue our email thing

Sometimes Hans has been coming in there as like a devil 's advocate type role ,
No , right . , tha that role is , , indispensable
and Ben and Hans are , if anything , more , they have more to say than , let 's say , I would about some of these things .

But the other part of it is the way they connect to these , , probabilistic relational models .
So the story is that if you have these probabilistic relational models , they 're set up , in principle , so that you can make new instances
So when you admit have admission fee and it changes something , it 's only for that particular It 's relational , right ?
So it could be that he 's actually , at some level , thinking about how am I going to communicate this story

But c the meeting looks like it 's , it 's gonna be good .
Right . So h he 's got a th he 's got a meet meeting in Germany with his thesis advisor .
Meeting regular meeting time for the summer ,
And the NTL meeting moved to Wednesday ,
To tell you the truth , I 'd rath I 'd , I 'd would like to avoid more than one ICSI meeting per day , if possible .
And the s meeting recorder meeting recording on meeting meetings
So you 're proposing that we meet Tuesday .
, we 're meeting Tuesday .
we usually meet Tuesday or l like , linguists , at two .
Is the Speech - Gen meeting still at on Tuesdays ?
like in th the meeting , he I thin like the last meeting we had , we were all very much part of it

which I already told the SmartKom people we aren't gonna use because they 're really bad .
it 's also something that people have not done before , is , abuse an ontology for these kinds of , , inferences , on
Because it seems to me that this is a time where when we have things to discuss with other people , there
people differ in their tastes in this matter .
But in a sense , it 's good to know that he of all people
, like maybe a lot of people would have m much stronger reactions ,
, it 's gonna be plenty hard for people to understand it as it is ,

So assume these are two , , nodes we can observe in the Bayes - net .
and the Bayes - net figures out which under the c situation in general is more likely ?
and the Bayes - net figures out whether this actually now means ?
We didn't we never did figure out how we were gonna do emphasis in , the semspec .
, it 's hard for me to figure out with our general linguistic issues , how they map onto this particular one ,
it 's , it 's a , , generate and test thing ,

, occur as an argument of a higher construction , but a bare singular stem doesn't get to act that way .
it th thi think of arguments in either direction on that .
What , what 's the argument for putting it in the construction ?
, wel , the ar the The argument is that you 're gonna have the
That that 's the argument in the other direction .

That 's the LISP - type scheme .
even without getting into it , even though the Scheme li , is really documented in the Festival .
that th there 's one of the advantages of a document , right ? ,
Right ? As long as we allow our type constraints to be reasonably complex .

OK , so natural language generation produces not a just a surface string that is fed into a text - to - speech but , a surface string with a syntax tree that 's fed into a concept - to - speech .
Now and this concept - to - speech module has certain rules on how if you get the following syntactic structure , how to map this onto prosodic rules .
and look up certain linguistic surface structures that are related to these concepts
OK ? So let 's think of a name for whatever the this intermediate structure is .
, that 's what text substitution macros are for .

Ergo , the classic off - by - one error .
And , , pretty mu on t on the top of my list , I would have asked Keith how the " where is X ? " hand parse is standing .
the XML trees for the for the gene for the synthesizer are written .
He 's - spends a fair amount of time here .
but no individual member kno
The one I sent you was from GMD , out of a European CRUMPET .
priming a spreading activation
, cuz it would the thread would nodes like , needed to be activated ,
This is this is essentially the Bayes - net equivalent of the spreading activation .
so but my is what 'll probably will happen , Here 's a here 's a proposed design . is that there 're certain constructions which , , for our purposes do change the probabilities of EVA decisions and various other kinds
re essentially re - initiali , re - i essentially re - initialize the state .
in the afternoon to the Powder - Tower
So , if the issue is , if so now th this construction has been matched and you say " OK . Does this actually have any implications for our decisions ? " Then there 's another piece of code that presumably does that computation .
there 's , ther there 's that as .
I wo I would like I would get a notion of what you guys have in store for me .
, so it 's a m minimal change .
In in logic , it 's it 's @ @ it 's actual ?
Right . Let 's put a Skolem constant in ,
That - that 's not that 's not saying it 's bad ,
, if you if you do wanna discuss focus background and then get me into that
which has been implicit in the parsing strategy we talked about .
Which , so far , in terms of like putting up all the constraints as , , pushing them into type constraints , the when I 've , , propo then proposed it to linguists who haven't yet given me , we haven't yet thought of a reason that wouldn't work .
, if there are some constraints that you hold back and don't use , in your initial matching then you 'll match some things
The original bad idea of purely context - free grammars died because there were just vastly too many parses .
, exponentially num many parses .

But those 'll be pretty similar to the old ones .
and then I 'll - I 'll check with , , Morgan on the money .
So it 'll say it 's nonsense with perfect intonation .
But I do th think that the It 'll turn out that it 's gonna be depend on whether there 's been an override .
so we 'll we 'll find a way .
Y you 'll come and take all the headph the good headphones first and then remind me .
So the idea is on Monday at two we 'll we 'll see an intermediate version of the formalism for the constructions ,
It 'll be more like towards finalizing that proposal .
Cuz then you 'll find out more of what we 're making you do .
I 'll I 'll send you a style file , right ?
and we 'll figure out exactly how to write that up and so on ,
And he 'll just go off on parts of it which definitely need fixing

one of the things I w would like to do over the next , , month , it may take more , is to st understand to what extent we can not only figure out the constructions for them for multiple worlds
and to the extent we don't , let 's find out what we need to do .
And i if we had a fancier one with multiple worlds you could have , you could keep track of what someone was saying about this and that .

but by , we can ask , , did you get to read all four hundred words ?
If you 've recognized the word ,
you 've recognized the word , which means you have a lexical construction for it ,
. There 's a problem with that word , too , though .
and yet a word like " constraint " causes a lot of problems .

and then we 'll figure out a way for you you to get connected with , their group .
We 've talked about it , but only the innermost inner group currently , ,
No , you , people in this group connecting with
And then you hand it back to your hippocampus
, that 's good . That 's that should be the core group
, but . But th then w then we have to come back to the bigger group .

, actually we w we did scrap our Monday time just because Bhaskara couldn't come Monday .
So there 's Nothing 's impeding Monday anymore either .
Although you wanted to go camping on Monday er , take off Mondays a lot so you could go camping .
so why don't we plan to meet Monday
, I i , I actually Two is the earliest meet on Monday .
Here I 'm blissfully agreeing to things and realizing that I actually do have some scheduled on Monday .
m @ @ , w maybe Mond - Maybe we can put This is part of what we can do Monday , if we want .
Why don't w Maybe you and I should meet more or less first thing Monday morning and then we can work on this .

, I if you 're not used to functional programming , Scheme can be completely incomprehensible .
, , if you ask " how much does a train ride and cinema around the vineyards cost ? " and then somebody tells you it 's sixty dollars and then you say " OK How much is , I would like to visit the " whatever , something completely different , " then I go to , , Point Reyes " ,
but it 's , , a complete rejection of entering by doing that .
I 've always been completely in favor of consensus decisions ,
, I d I don't think there 's any way that it could completely fail .
I 'm I 'm in favor of that .
So , you your dance card is completely filled now ?

The question of whether the polysemy is like in the construction or pragmatic .
but pragmatically that 's construed as meaning " tell me how to get there " .
So I a I th I agree with you that , , it 's a disaster to try to make separate constructions for every , pragmatic reading ,
Or have every construction list all the possible pragmatic implications of the same one .
Like " conceptually these have to be construed as this , and this " might still give us quite a few possibilities

But , that was before he knew about that George lecture probably .
This this is not It 's not bad for the project if Keith is talking to George .
And that is , Keith , what I encouraged George to be talking with you about .
but but I interrupted before Keith got to tell us what happened with " where is the Powder - Tower ? " or whatever
I would say that tha that those discussions have been primarily , , Keith and Keith and me ,
But when it 's like , , w how do we capture these things , , it 's definitely been Keith and I who have d , who have worried more about the

Your mike number is what we 're t
they 're just not context - free trees .
, if you say we 're we 're dump dump .
they 're ju they 're just proposals .
So that , so th thi this , so this is the point , is we 're going to have to cycle through this ,
s You said you 're busy over th until the weekend , right ?
. Great . And then we 're gon we 're gonna
, it has to in the sense that you 're gonna use them eventu

No , but the paper 's correct .
I didn't det I was saying the microphone , not the paper .
OK , which was that o one of the things I would like to see happen is a paper that was tentatively called " Towards a formal cognitive semantics "

back to the old Johno observation that if y if you have a dialogue history and it said the word " admission fee " was , mentioned , it 's more likely that the person actually wants to enter than just take a picture of it
So if someone mentions admission f fees , that activates an Enter schema which sticks around for a little while in your rep in the representation of what 's being talked about .
And then when someone asks " where is X ? " you 've already got the Enter schema activated
in th in the bl Bayes - net you could you could think about it this way , that if at the time " admissions fee " was mentioned you could increase the probability that someone wanted to enter .
We - th that 's what I wa I wasn't I was I wasn't thinking in terms of Enter schemas .
When th When the this is mentioned , the probability of , let 's say , entering changes
You could just hav , just , ob it It observes an er , it sets the a node for " entered " or " true " ,
so you could just as tag the lexical construction with the fact that it 's a , , thirty percent increase in probability of entering .
You So you could you could invert the whole thing , so you s you tag that information on to the lexicon

and my suggestion is that we start digging into them both , , in a way we that , , th
Then there is the really clever way that was suggested by Keith
and then there is the , , middle way that I 'm suggesting
If that 's a problem for me then I shouldn't suggest it .
OK . This is consistent with the role I had suggested that he play ,

And Fey has foolheartedly to rewrite , the German concept syntax - to - prosody rules
. Rewrite the German ones into English .
if sh y she 's really going to do that , then we should be able to get prosody as .

the question is , is this conventional or conversational implicature ?
Now my is that it 's not a question of time but it is a question of whether another intervening object has been mentioned .
so , has the current object been mentioned in with a question about concerning its
which is the issue of , , how do you simulate questions ?
incl including the questions
The WH question has this as extra thing which says " and when you 're done , tell me who fills that slot " or w .
and you just get intonation to tell you that it 's a question .

, there 's this guy who 's got a joint appointment ,
And it 's probably also uninteresting for all of you to , learn that as of twenty minutes ago , David and I , per accident , managed to get the whole SmartKom system running on the , ICSI Linux machines with the ICSI NT machines
thereby increasing the number of running SmartKom systems in this house from one on my laptop to three .
So , the people at Saarbruecken and I decided not to touch it ever again .
, . I think we already came to the conclusion that we have two alternative paths that we two alternative ways of representing it .
And I , see , the more important thing at this stage is that we should be able to know how we would handle it in ei
f in the short run it 's more important to know how we would treat technically what we would do if we decided A and what we would do if we decided B , than it is t to decide A or B r right now .
So I In the short run , let 's let 's be real clear on h what the two alternatives would be .
which we decided long ago we don't care that much right now .

that she 's also got a new student working on this and that we should get in touch with them again in August
But at least try and work out what the state of the art is right now .
th that the , , standard way that the these contexts work is stack - like or whatever ,
OK . I was actually gonna work on it for tomorrow like this weekend .
because , I wo I w scientifically worked on that for almost two years .
that 's , , very close to the maximum number of people working together that can get something done .

and when you have a certain , , construction , that implies certain couplings and other couplings ,
No , I know , I th that is gonna be the key to this wh to th the big project of the summer of getting the constructions right
But , , c almost certainly " can you pass the salt " is a construction worth noting that there is this th this
Now what could imagine to , , have a list for each construction of things that one should look up in the discourse history , ?
and he 's right , is you don't want to try to build into the construction itself all the synonyms and all , all the wo
, it 's just another , , construction side is how to get at the possible inferences we can draw from the discourse history
Even though the lexical construction itself out of context , , won't do it .
and , where c where the construction per - se ends and where construal comes in ,
but th the draft of the p proposal on the constructions is going to tell us a lot about what we think needs to be done by construal .

because right now the voice sounds like a murderer .
Smarticus sounds like a murderer .
, let 's just pick whatever sounds best .
Cuz sometimes he sounds like we 're talking a bunch of goobledy - gook from his point of view .

So need to do the , write a new set of tree combining rules .
but I 'm about to write it up this evening .
, just trying to write up essentially what you guys have worked out so that everybody has something to look at .
Right , t if to the extent that we have it , let 's write it
so , , , I don't have a write - up of or I haven't elaborated on the ideas that we were already talking about
And then the we had another idea floating around , which we wanted to , , get your input on ,
and do an on - line merging with my construal ideas .

so I also had a email correspondence with Daphne Kohler , who said yes she would love to work with us on the , , , using these structured belief - nets and
but then there 's this problem of the belief - net people have only done a moderately good job of dealing with temporal belief - nets .
they incorrectly call dynamic belief - nets .
So there 's a term " dynamic belief - net " , doesn't mean that .
what the formalism will look like and where the slots and fillers will be , but also what that would translate into in terms of belief - net and the inferences .
and then we have this inference problem of exactly technically how does the belief - net work

Like there 's lots of unnamed functions
and feed those through the dialogue history
, , is it doesn't it seem like if you just managed the dialogue history with a thread , that , kept track of ho of the activity of
whether anything relevant to the current something has been , has crept up in the dialogue history already , or not .
I have the , If we wanted to have that function in the dialogue hi dialogue module of SmartKom , I have the written consent of Jan to put it in there .
. That 's , I 'm I 'm keeping on good terms with Jan .

It turns out there 's the long - standing links with these guys in the speech group .
It doesn't The first paragraph doesn't seem to have any link to the second paragraph .

if it 's OK that we give her a couple of more hours per week , then she 'll do that .
Anyway , , that we were that we 're gonna try to get a , first cut at the revised formalism by the end of next week .
No , w we 're talking about a week fr e end of next week .
and that 's Ir - Irina Gurevich from EML who is going to be visiting us , , the week before , , August
And she would like to apply the ontology that is , being crafted at EML .
The ontology will tell us that castles have opening hours ,
So we have subjects anyway Except for this week , we have subjects in here .
. , if , i part of what the exercise is , t by the end of next week , is to say what are the things that we just don't have answers for yet .

I 've bested you again , Nancy .
We 've been so far working on things that are easy .
if you 've got huge ra huge range of possible choices
No , no . We 've got a lot we 've got a lot of theses going .
Cuz I know , , we 've been using this one easy sentence
and I 'm you guys have , maybe you are the one who 've been looking at the rest of it

W do you have data , like the You have preliminary data ?
it 'd it 'd be useful for me , if we want to have it a little bit more data oriented .
To tell you the truth , what I 've been looking at has not been the data so far ,
when we 're into data and looking at the some specific linguistic phenomenon in English or in German , in particular , whatever , that 's great ,

My is I asked for a commented version of that file ?
Now if it turns out that effort leads us into some big hole that 's fine .
So , forward chaining in a way , rather than backward .
It 's i Is it staying at the Wednesday noon ?
I already sent you my fi my bib file .
But if he g if he turns is really gonna turn around and help t to write this version that does connect with as many as possible of the other linguists in the world then it becomes important to use terminology that doesn't make it hard
My friend has a home version and he brought it over ,

So , Eva just reported she 's really happy about the CBT 's being in the same order in the XML
as in the be Java declaration format
so you don't have to do too much in the style sheet transversion .
The , Java the embedded Bayes wants to take input , a Bayes - net in some Java notation
and Eva is using the Xalan style sheet processor to convert the XML that 's output by the Java Bayes for the into the , , E Bayes input .
That 'd be weird , that he has both the Java Bayes and the embedded Bayes in

various issues of how come a plural noun gets to quote " count as a noun phrase " ,
I solved that at the same time as " how do we keep adjectives from floating to the left of determiners and how do we keep all of that from floating outside the noun phrase " to get something like " I the kicked dog " .
If we encounter a phrase such as " where is X ? " , should that set this to true and this to true ,
because Kate has a photography show .
, if you have time after this I 'll show you the noun phrase thing .
said " alright let 's see if get noun phrases and , , major verb co , constructions out of the way first . " And I have not gotten them out of the way yet .

The question is whether the construction is semantic or like ambiguous between asking for location and asking for path .
or whether the construction semantically , , is clearly only asking for location
Is it is it like that or is it just obvious from world knowledge that no one you wouldn't want to know the location without wanting to know how to get there or whatever .
, we talked about semspec , for " semantic spec specification "
So by just having semantic even bringing semantics in for matching just in the form of j semantic types , right ?

since we have this idea about the indefinite pronoun thing and all that , , I ca can try and , run with that ,
OK . Do you wanna run the indefinite pronoun idea past Jerry ?
the idea of saying that you treat from the simulation point of view or whatever you treat , , WH constructions similarly to , indefinite pronouns
because lots of languages , , have WH questions with an indefinite pronoun in situ or whatever ,
It makes sense from that point of view , too , which is actually better .

Mental mental Palm Pilot .
Probably skipping the mental spaces part .
Can we ? Is it worth thinking of an example out of our tourism thing domain , that involves a a decent mental space shift or setting up
Hhh . Maybe I do need a Palm Pilot .
So you perform the mental sum

It is , we have the choice between the , , usual Festival voices ,
, the usual party voices .
OGI has , , crafted a couple of diphone type voices that are really
Unfortunately , probably male voices , a bit more research on .

, if one thing is , this room is taken at after three - thirty pr every day
Because , , this room is again taken at two - thirty by Morgan .

So Mary fixed the car with a wrench .
and then , , " who fixed the car with a wrench ? "
In the in analogously to the way you would do " someone fixed the car with a wrench " .

Does OGI stand for ? Original German Institute ?
Oregon Graduate Insti
Oregon @ @ Graduate Institute

