they 'd all be like pointing to the one node .
Versus pointing to just at " tourist " ,
That 's that 's an interesting point .
It might be that if you add a new thing pointing to a variable , you just like it just overwrites everything .
So a person pointing to something on the screen , ,

Whether it 's a Whether it 's a public building , and whether it 's actually has a door .
explain to me why it 's necessary to distinguish between whether something has a door and is not public .
It seems like it 's equivalent to say that it doesn't have a door a and it
Or " not public " and " not a door " are equivalent things ,
Can we add , just so see how it 's done , , a " has door " property

In the sense that , , if it 's Tom the house of Tom Cruise , , it 's enterable but you may not enter it .
Whether it 's practically speaking enterable , or actually physically enterable or not ?
S so it 's matrix between if it 's not enterable ,
And if it if you do it If you could connect it too hard you may get such phenomenon that like " So how much has it cost to enter ? "
So you 're thinking like a hundred and forty four possible things numbers to enter ,

What if the context , which is not set , but still they say things like , " I want to go , see the the castle and , et cetera . "
If the context were to set one way or another , that like strongly , says something about whether or not they 're tourists .
So what 's interesting is when it 's not when it 's set to " unknown " .
We - what set the they set the context to " unknown " ?

right now it 's still in a toy version of it ,
which is maybe something that is , a more general version of the actual phenomenon that you can observe .
that 's like the bigger , version of it .

Not because it would expedite the probabilities , cuz it wouldn't .
cuz I got a wireless mike on .
Cuz if it 's like , If it 's four things coming in ,

It 's talks about It just refers to the fact that one of main things we had to do was to decide what the intermediate nodes were ,
So the " tourists " node should be , very consistent with the context node .
Like is that to be if that 's accurate then that would determine tourist node .
How long would it take to add another node on the observatory and , , play around with it ?
actually it 's it wouldn't affect any of our nodes ,
That would all f funnel into one node that would constitute entrance requirements like that .
the nodes , the observed nodes , for your middle layer .
Or we could like add more , , middle nodes .
Like we could add a node like do they want to enter it ,
and we make up some toy a observable " nodes "

I if that question 's in general ,
but in general they would be a probability distribution over all verbs .
If you say that 's more their in general what their background is .
Actually we could write a program that could generate this .
if there 's a way to define it or maybe generalize it some way
so I how if any of this was discussed but how i if it all this is going to interact with whatever general , other discourse processing that might be happen .
just refine some of the more general nodes .

The context , which in this case we 've limited to " business person " , " tourist " , or " unknown " ,
it 's just the businessman , the tourist , unknown .

but are you saying that in this particular domain it happens the that landmark - iness cor is correlated with
And I was just wondering whether that 's the same as what you describe as " landmark - iness " .
There 's landmark for , touristic reasons and landmark for
The landmark is facing to the tourists .
That 's because we 're talking about landmarks as touristic landmarks
So maybe we wanna have " landmark " meaning now " enterable landmark " versus , something that 's simply just a vista point , .

but the middle thing , we were thinking along the lines of maybe trying to figure out , like , the concept of whether they 're a tourist or whether they 're running an errand like that
Whether the destination was their final destination ,
but the other ones , the final destination , the whether they 're doing business , whether they 're in a hurry , and whether they 're tourists ,
Whether you 're It 's whether It 's not
y If you 're running an errand you maybe more likely to be able to enter places that are usually not al w you 're not usually not allowed to m
So this again points to " final destination " , " doing business " , " tourist hurry " and .
Then again , everything else is free then once you 're ins in there .
but we should try to keep in mind that , , we 're doing this for research ,
here 's like we 're gonna segment off a bit of that comes from discourse
One task is more likely you 're in a hurry when you do that s doing business ,
and less in a hurry when you 're a tourist
tourists may have never have final destinations , because they are eternally traveling around
In which case you 're supposed to alert the authorities , and see appropriate action .

Can you maximize the window so all that on the side isn't doesn't appear ?
it 's it 's an issue ,
and it also helps in coordinating the gesture screen issues .
What 's the technical term ?
You think there 's a chance we might need Liz for , whatever , the technical side of things ?
experimental setup u on the technical issue

Yes , we could things we couldn't extract the from the data , the hidden variables .
So then the hidden variables hair variables we came up with were whether someone was on a tour , running an errand , or whether they were in a hurry ,
What 's common is you just like don't observe the variable ,
So it 's addressing a variable that 's " enterable or not " .
So I if there There 's some m more than one way of organizing the variables into something
so it , my computer does not know its IP address ,
Like we wanna we wanna be able to collect as much of the variables that are needed for that ,

, , " the search for the middle layer " .
So then our next idea was to add a middle layer ,
So , the middle layer is also binary ?
but to get thinking about that hidden middle layer .
So maybe this could be a separate region of the net , which has two has it 's own middle layer .
That 's a whole set of discourse related cues to your middle layer .
They ra may have there own hidden layer that points to some of the real hidden layer , or the general hidden layer .
And maybe there 's a hidden layer for that .
so maybe what what happened what might happen is that we do get this task - based middle layer ,
and then we 'll get these sub - middle layers , that are more cue - based .

So there are certain cues that are very strong either lexical or topic - based , concept cues
We were like " , if the person does this and this , let 's say forty percent for this ,
I I like about these meetings is one person will nod , and then the next person will nod , and then it just goes all the way around the room .
, there might be other cues that , say , , in the last few utterances there has been something that has strongly associated with say one of the particular modes
it 's more for a cue that the person actually wants to get somewhere else
So tha that structure that Robert drew on the board was like more , cue - type - based ,
not ex it 's implicit that the person wants to enter ,

Like we don't have nodes for " discourse " and " parse " ,
I once we look at the data more we 'll get more hidden nodes ,
and this may influence these hidden nodes of the discourse

But if you really want to find out what it 's about you have to click on the little light bulb .
One thing that bugs me about JavaBayes is you have to click that and do this .
it 's cra has a GUI and it 's
probably double cli click on it .
so we should find a limit that 's reasonable and not go , , all the way back to Adam and Eve .
This person is , finding out information about this thing in order to go in as a tourist or finding out how to get to this place in order to do business .
, that 's how we get a corpus that we can label .

anything with a question mark after it in that picture is a binary node .
But all those things without question marks are also binary .
but it doesn't have question mark because it 's extracted .
So like an " enterable , question mark " .
And then , there 's also the question whether it may be entered .
So I your question is so far I have no really arg no real argument why to differentiate between statues as statues and houses of celebrities ,

And then " Let 's look at the belief - net " OK .
although like in some sense they are parts of this belief - net .
So the issue is that in belief - nets , it 's not common to do what we did of like having , , a d bunch of values and then " unknown " as an actual value .

What 's what 's " Disc admission fee " ?
There were there 'd be other things besides just the admission fee ,
so one thing I 'm unsure about , is how we have the discus the " admission fee " thing set up .
but you could see perhaps discus the " admission fee " going directly to the mode pointing at " Enter " ,
Disc - " admission fee " is a binary thing ,
I like I like Word Pad because it has the the returns ,
is that maybe we ob we could observe a couple of discourse phenomena such as the admission fee ,
So instead of single node , for like , if they said the word " admission fee "
admission fee , or maybe , , " how much to enter "
, the " discourse admission fee " node seems like it should point directly to the
which is affected by admission fee and by whether it 's closed and by whether it has a door .
that the h nothing beats the admission charge prices in Japan .

because if you 're gonna get real close to a building in the Tango mode ,
But if you looked at it real close , you could see the in intricacy of the of the walls .
Something you want to inspect at close range because it 's interesting .
it just had the er and what time it closed .
Close it and load up the old state so it doesn't screw that up .
like they want to enter , but it 's closed ,

We couldn't we couldn't figure out how to turn it off of " Tango " .
So the discourse refers to " admission fee " but it just turns out that they change their mind in the middle of the discourse .
there 's a there 's change across several turns of discourse
and , if the discourse takes a couple of turns before everything all the information is needed ,
So so if on Friday it turns out that she really likes it and we really like her , then nothing should stop us from sitting down next week and getting all the details completely figured out .

I saw directory called " source " ,
I 'd rather stay home and watch TV "
, that 's what it 's called .
It 's amazing what human beings can do .
I actually made a mistake because it fell asleep
and when Linux falls asleep on my machine it 's it doesn't wake up ever ,

because it 's because have the time of day
And then in that second row or whatever that row of Time of Day through that So all of those Some of them come from the utterance
Unmark @ @ Time of Day
time of day is like morning , afternoon , night .
And the time of day is night ?
it 's night time ,

It 's a needless good idea .
OK , So our initial idea was not very satisfying , because our initial idea was all the features pointing to the output node .
The person at the screen is trying to communicate some abstract idea ,
like " I 'm " the abstract idea being " I am a tourist
But The idea is that we just extract those features from them , so we don't actually have a node for the entire parse ,

Reasons being , , it 'd be a pain to set up all the probabilities for that .
The probability whether the probability of a Vista , Tango , or Enter .
And that would require s updating the probability distribution for " mode " as .
and then try to find the probability of other nodes .
Like , we hand - tuned the probabilities ,
It 's So we have to like fit the probabilities .
However , it The purpose was not really , at this stage , to come up with meaningful probabilities
That 's how actual probability tables are specified .
we can maybe write an interface th for entering probability distributions easily ,
I actually seem to recall Srini complaining about something to do with Entering probability
. The additional thing is I learning the probabilities , also .

Normally context will include a huge amount of information ,
No I Earlier I went {nonvocalsound} and Bhaskara went {nonvocalsound} and you did it .
So even without an a ana anaphora somebody has to make that information we had earlier on is still here .
so it 's a it 's a rather huge thing
and then get s some more information and then you see " here 's a sequence that this roughly fits into " .
So it may get us some more information on the human - machine pragmatics , , that no one knows anything about , as of yesterday .

So it seems like that would really help you for doing business versus tourist ,
do they allow business people to be doing non - business things at the moment ?
but we cannot be in a medium hurry at the moment ?
So . Are " doing business " versus " tourist "
Business on the other hand is , , definitely what you 're doing .
wh you have to go get money and so you are doing business at that stage .
it 's it affects th The " doing business " is certainly not .
You could affect Theoretically you could affect " doing business " with " has door " .

whether they discuss the admission fees .
say they discussed the admission fee
They don't discuss the admission fee .
If it 's night time , they have not discussed admission fee , and the n walls are .
So a more general thing than " discussed admission fee " , could be
Something Somebody can have discussed the admission fee and u the answer is s if we
We can query it whether admission fees were discussed in the last turn
, did that person ever discuss admissions fee fees in his entire life ?
So one thing that might be helpful which is implicit in the use of " admission fee discussion " as a cue for entry , is thinking about the plans that various people might have .

that 's always warping on something some entity ,
Or or any good old Pink Floyd concert .
One time I saw a report on trains ,
you always had to change trains at Omaha ,
I 'm frightened by Amtrak myself .
It 's not like German trains .
I used Amtrak quite a bit on the east coast
But it 's a , , simple solution .
So what 's " Economics , the fallacy " ?

meaning " It 's way out of my budget "
see whether she can actually do all the spontaneous , eloquent and creativeness that we expect of the wizard .
figured it has to be someone who 's , , familiar enough with the data to problems for the wizard , so we can , , see if they 're good .
, in this case it 's a p it 's a testing of the wizard rather than of the subject .
except we st we still need a recording device for the wizard ,
and have the wizard partake in the ultimate definition probe .

OK , so , so note the four nodes down there , the , the things that are not directly extracted .
The " closed " is also not directly extracted I ,
we kept things from directly affecting the mode beyond the concept ,
or increase the probability of " enter directly " versus " going there via tourist " .
Either like make an arrow directly or put a new node .

And then maybe there are some discourse acts if they happened before ,
now it 's up for us to figure out what going there is is happening ,
Because not every module keeps a memory of everything that happened .
so whenever the , person is not actually rejecting what happened before ,

It opens the Assistant that tells you that the font type is too small .
That 's " saliency " , or the " salience " of an object .
we have an object type statue .
And then we have , , an object type , , that 's a hotel .
It 's the hotel Zum Ritter ,
the verbs used , the object types used , modifiers .

the prosody , the discourse , verb choice .
but you can imagine maybe wanting the oth both kinds of things there for different , goals .
Verb used is actually personally amusing
mainly because it 's it 's just whether the verb is a Tango verb , an Enter verb , or a Vista verb .
Similarly prosody is not all of prosody
It it can take values in the set of all verbs , that they could possibly use .
but you can imagine that it 's verb plus various other things that are also not in the bottom layer that would that would help you

and " open to suggestions " , isn't actually a feature .
It 's " We are open to suggestions . "
I either could put " walls " on its own line or " open to suggestions " off the slide .
. I would actually suggest we go through this one more time so we all , agree on what the meaning of these things is at the moment
So , I suggest w to for to proceed with this in the sense that maybe throughout this week the three of us will talk some more about maybe segmenting off different regions ,

So then the features we decided or we decided we were talked about ,
but I decided to put it on the same line for space .
If you have N features , then it 's two to the N or exponential in N .
so we decided that for the purposes of this it 'd be simpler to just have three verbs .
But we just decided to keep all the things we extracted to point at the middle and then down .
but simply for our purposes whether or not they appear tense or relaxed .

So that 's like a huge clue that they 're trying to Enter the place rather than to Tango or Vista ,
So that is the probability that they 're Entering , Vista - ing or Tango - ing .
So slightly biased toward " Tango " ing
Maybe the bias toward " Tango " ing was yours , then ?
Spent my youth practicing the tango de la muerte .
But , , it 's still an unlikely candidate for the Tango mode I must say .
and especially since Johno can't stop Tango - ing , we may actually include , , those intentions .

Dat - dat - dah .
it get into plan recognition kinds of things in the discourse .
, because then anything that 's a cue for one of the steps would be slight evidence for that overall plan .
They 're in non in more traditional AI kinds of plan recognition things you have , some idea at each turn of agent doing something ,
OK , wha what plans is this a consistent with ?
It 's in the these plan schemas .
And then these should then connect somehow to the more plan - based deep space

Because I 'm gonna switch to the JavaBayes program
but , we are just using the particular part of the context which consists of the switch that they flick to indicate whether they 're a tourist or not , I .
The the So the context is a switch between tourist or non - tourist ?
so , that was directly given by the context switch .
I 'm just wondering whether the context , the background context of the discourse might be

There 's like an XML format for Bayes - nets .
But if th if there is an XML file that or format that it can also read
and he 's updated it for an XML version of I Bayes - nets .
There 's a Bayes - net spec for in XML .
So essentially a lot of those nodes can be expanded into little Bayes - nets of their own .
, another thing to do , , is also to , I to ask around people about other Bayes - net packages .
I how much the structure of the evolving Bayes - net will af affect

You Like you could have a post office with , murals .
So , a big flat structure .
I 'm a big fan .
That 's my favorite editor .
It helps an anaphora resolution and it and it fills in all the structures that are omitted ,
But , I whether it 's which ones are safer , , statistically .

I didn't i install that into my PowerPoint presentation .
Why are you doing this in this mode and not in the presentation mode ?
but then I have to end the presentation in the middle so go back to open up
every presentation have a should have a " Future Work " slide .
And if you have a presentation that doesn't have something that doesn't work , then you have " What I learned " , as a slide .
OK , so that our presentation 's finished .
It 's it 's actually the whole memory of the entire system , that knows what wh who said what , which was what was presented .
the discourse model actually stores what was presented at what location on the s on the screen
it looks up some that , , is that is in the written by the operating system only if it if you get a DHCP request ,

It 's It 'll work .
I 'll also get rid of this " Click to add notes " .
I 'll talk about it when I get the picture up .
And that 'll affect whether you want to enter or you if you
It 'll ask you what you what it wants what you want to open it with and see what BAT , I .
giving his job talk .
And then maybe we 'll discover the phenomenon the phenomena that we want to solve , , with whatever engine we come up with .

If we moved onto the next step and did learning of some sort , according Bhaskara we 'd be handicapped .
and the answer is two hundred fifty dollars ,
There are places in Germany where it costs two hundred fifty dollars to enter ?
So there , two hundred dollars is moderate for getting into a discotheque .
and it 's fifty steps ,
And it 's because that person actually is following , You execute a whole plan of going through a hundred and fifty steps , , without any information other than " New York " ,

They 're not exclusive groups ,
They 're not mutually exclusive ?
And are those mutually exclusive sets ?

They refer to your current task .
entering or som like they might be more task - based .
that What you guys did is really nicely sketching out different tasks , and maybe some of their conditions .
but , if we take a subject that is completely unfamiliar with the task , or any of the set up , we get a more realistic
So now we should maybe have at least one navigational task with explicit
and maybe some task where it 's more or less explicit

We can do a demo in the sense that we can , just ob observe the fact that this will , do inference .
The reason I say the demo doesn't work very is yesterday we observed everything in favor of taking a tour ,
that 's future work .
I , the fact that the there 's a complete separation between the observed features and in the output .
you 'd have to figure out what knowl what knowledge representation would work for that .
just for buying a ticket at a ticket counter ,
W when we talked we had the example , , of you being a s a person on a ticket counter working at railway station

the of " doing business " as more of running an errand type thing .
So if you run out of cash as a tourist , and and you need to go to the AT
and somebody r runs up to you with a suitcase in his hands , says New York
Jerry however suggested that we should have a trial run with her ,
and it looks as if Friday afternoon will be the time when we have a first trial run for the data .
So who would be the subject of this trial run ?
just a tape recorder that 's running in a room .

And it 's either because you 're in route to something else or you wanna look at the walls .
can ask the walls part of it is that , in this particular domain
So " walls " is a stand in for like architecturally it , significant
but if it 's architecturally significant you might be able to see it from
I was at this place in Europe where they had little carvings of , like , dead people on the walls .
So that count as counts as a wall .
and some of them are either world knowledge or situational things .
walls is something that we extract from our world knowledge .
- And lots of detail , c and carvings , engravings and ,

So we 're gonna set up features along the lines of where they want to go
You 'd probably have to transfer in Chicago .
Is that t San Francisco , Chicago ?
but there was like a California to Chicago line of some sort .
there are tourists and all this weird happens at the line up and you 're like
The data we get from Munich is very command line ,

So Tom Cruise 's house is not a public building
So , the most famous building in Heidelberg is actually a hotel .
which is the only Renaissance building in Heidelberg that was left after the big destruction and for the Thirty Years War , blah - blah .
, , still , based on that result is never going to enter that building .

OK , I have to report , data collection .
meaning be the wizard for the data collection ,
So , is it a experimental setup for the , data collection ready determined ?
The the basic u idea behind the data collection was the following .
So we wanted just to collect data , to get that elicits more , , that elicits richer language .
So in other words this data collection is more general .
Whereas , , if we 'd just get data we 'd never they actually wanted ,

Although I 've I 've never I what the light bulb is for .
So the thinking behind that was we have the features that we 've drawn from the communication of some Like , the someone s
and what they 've said previously and whatnot .
But that would 've made the probably significantly be more complicated to enter ,
we should have exponentially more middle nodes than features we 've extracted .
I like how we 've you guys have successfully narrowed it down .

or dis we could discrete it des descret - ize it .
so I it 's averaging over all those three possibilities .
What movie was selected in what cinema in what town is going to be added into the disc into the representations every di at each dialogue step , by the discourse model discourse model ,
And the dialogues are pretty concise
, the only like possible interpretation is that they are like come here just to rob the museum to that effect .

it 's starting to grow on me
There are various things that you might w not want to eat a meal there but your own table .
also we can , start looking at the SmartKom tables
And if I reboot without a network , I will not be able to start SmartKom , because I need to have a network .
But once you start sart start SmartKom you can be on You don't have to be on a network anymore .

One track ended there and the other one started at five meters away from that
. The - they will be aud ad - hoc for for some time to come .
The probabilities and all are completely ad - hoc .
but , they 're even like like , close to the end we were like , , we were like really ad - hoc .
Is Srini gonna be at the meeting tomorrow ,
Bu - e I 'm even This this Tango , Enter , Vista is , itself , an ad - hoc scenario .
So is this the official end of the meeting now ?

Goats eat cans , to my understanding .
There is actually a text file that you can edit .
I could have misread the web page ,
So e because at the end the more we add , , the more spider - web - ish it 's going to become in the middle and the more of hand editing .
and then it 's handed on to the discourse history which is , o one of the most elaborate modules .
New York Rhode Island ,

but also recruiting subjects , organizing them , and .
Liz also volunteered to be the first subject , which might be even better than us guys .
I 'm we can get other people around who anything , if we want another subject .
it should tell us also maybe something about the difference between people who think they speak to a computer versus people who think they speak to a human being

I 'm ju I 'm just jo
plants ? e u someone who can plant difficult things .

