So we can make a point that here is ontological knowledge
So , , that 's that 's a good point ,
let 's so let 's think about this from the point of view of construal .
So that 's that 's a that 's a reasonable point ,

That 's the not the construction parser .
That 's the , , tablet - based parser ,

, , , George would have I 'm some exa complicated ex reason why it really was an instance of something else
and it 's it 's a little complicated .

, that 's actually a little tricky in English

It 's strangely satisfying .

and then maybe talk about the big picture here ,
And it to the extent that 's true then it 's a big win over anything that exists .
So 's it 's it 's a very big deal , i in this framework ,

You 're you remember you 're being recorded at this point .
But they 're they 're mimicking the synthesis when they speak to the computer ,
they 're trying to match their prosody onto the machine .
on the , you 're that 's see , that 's you .
because to some extent they 're synonyms .
I 'm - we 're worrying about the th the thes
but it 's not clear that they 're mainly construal examples .
There 're too there 're all sorts of fixed expressions
you ever see the Simpsons where they 're like the family 's got the buzzers

th these are you 're addressing like , computational linguists ,
There 's gonna be four computational linguists ,
OK . But more emphasis on the computational ? Or emphasis on the linguist ?
More there 's going to be the just four computational linguists , by coincidence ,
That 's that 's computa should be very computational ,

So , if we 're not talk about the lexic
but then you 're not on the lexical level ,
that 's one level higher .

Are we to r Just to make I 's going on , we 're talking about Robert 's thesis proposal today ?
let 's talk about your thesis proposal .
and the thesis proposal as it stands doesn't ,

, , my argument here is it 's it 's the same thing as " Plato 's on the top shelf , "
, th that you can refer to a book of Plato by using " Plato , "

a lot of the this is interacting with , , people in Italy
This is why there 's this interaction between the analysis and the construal .
It 's not one of the y it 's more straightforward ones forward ones to defend ,
because people interacting with HTI systems try to be straightforward and less lyrical ,

, I could tell you had a rough day , man !
current formalism thing that you presented .
That 's , ten words ?
feed you back to our original problem
and then at the end about our Bayes - net .
But I don't think I am capable of do pulling this off and doing justice to the matter .
I was ac actually worried about bibtex .
He slipped on the wet floor .
, but it 's it 's Right . i , it 's more
There 's there 's lots of things you could make T - shirts out of ,
and th w it 's he there 's a platform notion ,
, Lind - Susan Lindner ,
It 's a speech - act .
that 's that 's a the background .
A st , , you can certainly say , , , " I 'm in overload . "
I love Van Gogh .
But it 's it 's easy to make up plausible ones .
What color was this in the nain nineteenth century .

then I 'm asking them to imagine that they 're standing somewhere in Heidelberg
they 're supposed to imagine that , , do they think the person wants to go there , or just know where it is ?
, unless there 's a person called " Jackendorf " ,

Cuz you 're like , it 's a state of there 's resource ,
the state . You 're out of the state of having film , right ? and somehow film is standing for the re the resour the state of having some resource is just labeled as that resource .
Is the d the final state of running out of something is being out of it .
It i But it 's a state and the issue is , is that it may be just a usage ,
I , " I 'm in I 'm in a state of exhaustion " ?

so I 'm gonna steal that from Nancy ,
one of Nancy 's st
which is , that , the constructions , that , , Nancy and Keith and friends are doing , , are , in a way , quite general
But as Nancy just su suggested it 's probably ellipticus .

in our beloved tourism domain .
and then we may get the same constructions with a metaphorical use that 's also relevant to the to the domain .
On the bus is a m is a metaphorical metonymy
OK . Can we think of a metaphorical use of " where " in the tourist 's domain ?
But the argument should be , can be made that , , despite the fact that this is not the most met metaphorical domain ,
that it in this domain you 're gonna get less metaphor and more metonymy .

, it 's pretty slow .
that 's Bergen , Chang , something , or the other .
I 'm glad to see propagation .
Also it would be to get ultimately to get a mental space example ,

and then it continues to say that one could potentially build a probabilistic relational model that has some general , domain - general rules
and then the idea is to use ontology , situation , user , and discourse model to instantiate elements in the classes of the probabilistic relational model to do some inferences in terms of what is being construed as what
It 's it 's certainly related ,
wh when you say all this , do you mean , like , I , the related work ,
that relates some meta path metaphorically

had one of the most frustrating meetings of my career .
It 's definitely not the most frustrating meeting I 've ever had .
That 's when I 'm meeting with Wolfgang Wahlster to sell him this idea .

Y You definitely wanna w don't wanna waste that money on research ,
, no , y i there 's infinite money .

, I 'm I 'm gonna start out with this slide ,
even on your five - layer slide , you 've got an old one that leaves that off .
there the there we 've got various i generations of slides that show language analysis , and matching to the underlying image schemas ,
, th that 's c that comes up to the X - schema slide ,

OK , we can we can pass my , we can pass my extra copy around .
That 's copy and paste from something .

Exactly . It 's because do you wanna c do you want to view the bakery as a p a place that i , if y
, yo you might have smelled a smell and are just curious about whether there 'd be a bakery in the neighborhood ,
and there 're all sorts of reasons why you might be asking about the existence of a bakery

the way the construction 's written it requires that the object of the preposition be a container .
You 're also not referring to the width of the object , or so ,
When when you 're getting information on objects .
We c we can show people pictures of objects

The twenty - first I 'm assuming .
today 's the twenty - first ?
Pro - probably not your marks in the kitchen , today .

, it 's just underneath , , , that reference to metaphor .
So that , , , , in the metaphor case , that you have a direct idea of a source , path , and goal
and any metaphorical one and abstract goals and all that you can do the same grammar .

I know that he 's going to like , Taiwan and other places to eat .
is it a building ? , that you want to go to ? or is it something to eat that you want to buy ?
Bakery can't be something you 're gonna eat .
that doesn't mean , " I want to buy some baked goods . "

Should I mention the fact that , , we 're also actually started going to start to look at people 's brains in a more direct way ?
, the time to mention it , if you mention it , is when you talk about mirror neurons ,
I might even mention that this work you 're doing is also with the MPI in Leipzig ,
the b the combination of the biology and the Leipzig connection might be interesting to these guys ,
And undoubtably there 's been reams of work about it in cognitive linguistics ,

, there 's contact that doesn't social contact ,
Sudden surprising contact ,

but cover only base cases .
And to make them apply to metaphorical cases and metonymic cases and all those things , requires this additional mechanism , of construal .
Even though One could argue what if there are basic cases , even .
, there 's tons of cases for polysemy .

, there 's separate channels .
and as a prelude , I 'll talk about monkeys in Italy .
and that the plan is to see to what extent the you 'll get the same phenomena with stories about this ,
I 'll probably I c might have I 'll probably have comments for you separately ,

And , , and Fey is doing the synthesis as we speak .
he 's on the standing on the bus waving to me .
But th the regular as we speak " J Johno was on the bus to New York , "

It 's partially inspired by the spatial
doesn't nece I don't necessarily have to care about the spatial location ,
just in the spatial domain are rare .

Then I 'm also going to present a little talk at EML , about what we have done here
Then I 'm going to talk about the data ,
, I will talk about our problems with the rephrasing ,
and then , talk a bit about the embodied and simulation approach favored here
and then I stole an X - schema from one of your talks .
talk about the construction aspect
then you should talk about the more recent , about the kicking

that if you introduce a new construction at the base level , it should com , interact with all the metonymies and metaphors
And , similarly , if you introduce a new metaphor , it should then , compose with all of the constructions .

So that 's why Keith and I are going to be a little dazed for the first half m the meeting .
and then you have these half - domes , glass half - domes ,
and the offices are in the glass half - dome .

about we talked about is the , , scalability that you get by , , combining the constructions with the general construal mechanism .
So does that mean instead of having tons and tons of rules in your context - free grammar you just have these base constructs and then a general mechanism for coercing them .
So with construal you don't have to have a construction for every possible thing that can fill the rule .

, how di how d exactly did , , that paper lead to anti - lock brakes ?
so show you what I 've got , get your input on it , and maybe some suggestions ,
And if that 's not consistent with other things , then you 've gotta reject that reading .
we 've thought about it before , t to use the examples in other papers ,

so the most relevant aspects of our stay here ,
. Or you can run into an old friend , or run .
, " run into " might even be more impact sense than , , container sense .
But Like , " run into an old friend " , it probably needs its own construction .
So " running out of it " definitely has a process aspect to it .

Because , , EML is building up a huge thing in Leipzig .
this is the , , DNA building , or someth the double helix building .
, they 're building a building in the shape of DNA ,
So , , mak re making reference to buildings as institutions , as containers , as build
, so ib in mus , in museums , , as a building or as something where pictures hang versus , , ev something that puts on exhibits ,

, , Liz suggested we could start off by , doing the digits all at the same time .
I 'm not gonna put in the figures from Liz ,

and someone asks them in the morning The Cave Forty - Five is a is a - known discotheque
but if it 's nine PM in the evening then the discotheque question would be , , one that might ask for directions instead of just location .
maybe the " where is something " question as a whole , , can be construed as , u i locational versus instructional request .

, that , , you have these two different ideas that are or two different camps of people envisioning how language understanding works ,
so the emergentism story would be to be , it would be to tell people
we 'd talked about putting in something about people had ,
but the rest is , whatever , biocomputing people and physicists .

but you could always send me comments per electronic mail
, actually this is the newest version after your comments ,
And any type of comment whether it 's a spelling or a syntax or
OK . So why don't we plan to give you feedback electronically .

but it gets constr construed as a c container .
, a cafe can be construed as a container , or it can be construed as a obstacle ,
No , no . The question is d do you wanna do you wanna construe do you wanna constr - strue

We had we had initially we 'd started discussing the " out of film . "
I find it a little bit farfetched to say that " I 'm out of film " means that I have left the state of having film like that ,

But " walked into the cafe and ordered a drink , " and " walked into the cafe and broke his nose , "
But it does say that , , if you walked into the cafe and broke your nose , then you are construing the cafe as an obstacle .
and so , " Why would he walk into the cafe and then somehow break his nose ? "
The " walk into it " never really means , w as in walked smack
, but , y if you find " walked smacked into the cafe " or " slammed into the wall "
His car ran into the cafe .

I I could ask something like " Where can I find out about blah - blah "
construal still is , , , completely , , key in terms of finding out any of these things ,
So not even in descriptions w did we find anything , , relevant .

, do we have to time them at the same time or just overlapping
I will have time to do some revision and some additional on various airplanes and trains .
Cars run into telephone poles all the time .

where was Heidelberg , , in the Thirty Years ' War ?
the data that I 've looked at so far that rec
We , I with a I looked with a student I looked at the entire database that we have on Heidelberg for cases of metonymy .

thing standing for activ most relevant activity for a tourist
and so you can Castles have as tourist sites , have admission fees ,
Tu - stur tourists will often say that .

Including cr cross - bridges ,
, maybe we can include that also in our second , , data run .

Depends . , there is a , , whole language learning story ,
You d you really now I spent the last time I was there I spent maybe two hours hearing this story
, " Where could I learn its opening hours , " .

The it was it turns out that if you have multiple billions of dollars , y you can do all sorts of weird things ,
So I would try to I would stay away from one that involves weird construal .
Two hundred million dollars .

your quals and your triple - AI .
The quals w the the quals slides would be fine .

Cuz I read halfway but I didn't see a castle thing .
Cuz let me tell the gang what the punch line is ,
And the punch line is , he claimed , that if you do this right , you can get essentially orthogonality ,

, if you would have checked your email you may have received a note from Yees asking you to send me the , , up - to - d
think of , ramps , coming out of the double helix
You might want to , , double - check the spellings of the authors ' names on your references ,
, I checked for it in the Brown national corpus .

, as in every human - human telephone conversation , and the human - computer telephone conversation is quite d quite different from , , some first , , observations .
and engage in conversation on the history and the art and the architecture and .

So the top of the second of pa page two you have a sentence .
You con you conditioned me with your first sentence ,

