And in some ways it 's it 's very similar to
There are certain things that are attribute - value , similar to the bindings below
And the reason that he gave was similar to the reason why Johno thought it was a misleading term ,
Right , " this guy I know from school came for dinner " does not mean , , " there 's a guy , I know him from school ,
that 's probably maybe in the long term that 's good news

so this probably not worth trying to do anything till he gets back .
And furthermore it 's worth missing .
Let 's let 's mark that .
, it 's been analyzed by the formalists as being a logophoric pronoun ,
which means a pronoun which refers back to the person who is speaking or that thing , right ?
There 's a whole book which operates on this assumption .
, this book , a ninety - three book on , on pronoun .
That 's also been analyzed as logophoric and having nothing to do with " I " .
It 's like , , actually , it 's the same operation .

So , if some other construction says , , " are you of type is this part of type whatever " , , the " designates " tells you which part is the meaning part .
, these things are like it 's semantically part of it
I if that 's something we need to spa to like say ever as part of the requirement ?
And then have it part of the speech - act in some way .
Can be just another frame that 's part of your
that , , once we have this defined , it is your tool kit for building the semantic part of constructions .
That 's up at the reference part .
, they 're intonational markers for the most part .

If there 's something a lot more complicated like , or so hypothetical or whatever , then you have to do your job ,
We 're not saying What 's hypothetical about this world .
, there 's this , , hierarchy there 's a schematization of , , things can be active or they can be , , accessible , inaccessible .
or this is something that 's like in my world knowledge but not active .
. So that 's , these are all implicitly one within , within one world .
, if y if I said " time " is , , " past " , that would say " set that this world " , , " somewhere , before the world that corresponds to our current speech time " .
The the within the event it 's st it 's still one world .
So this entire thing is inside a world ,

Or it 's , it 's an identity thing or a contrast with other things ,
and that 's probably relevant for the like " where is " , , " the castle " thing ?
cuz I would say , for a particular utterance you have particular referring expressions in it .
So I so for now , maybe I 'll just have in this list the things that are relevant to this particular utterance , right ?
So it 's it 's a little bit different from just saying " all these things are true from my utterance " .
cuz it 's not that f important right now .
OK , , then this says that when an analysis is finished , the whole analysis is finished , you 'll have as a result , , some s resulting s semspec for that utterance in context ,
but the fact is that utterances of that sort are generally used to help you draw a conclusion also about some implicit contrast ,
and find out how thing X is construed as an utterance U .

There 's a there 's a slot for setting time and setting place .
We we know that it 's what predication it 's setting up .
but I can't think of like the limited set of possible meanings that you would that you would focu
the fact that you can get it without any stress and you have some whatever is predicated anyway should be the same set of constructions .
It 's like , " ! " It was an epiphany that it , topic and focus are a contrast set .
you have a set of entities that you 're referring to .
It was like in this particular set , s , instance , it has been referred to recently or it hasn't been ,
because in terms of the s simspec , it would just mean you put one more set of brack brackets around it ,
it was Keith 's , , job over the summer to come up with this set of constructions .
And then Nancy you 're gonna have to , , do your set of
The pressure 's on you Nancy .

the textual example at the end has clausal construction .
But because of the nature of this particular construction not just that it 's nominal of some kind
And then we have a construction that says , , you can have " the " preceding a noun .
which is an argument structure construction
, it 's frame - based construction .
that , , we can have constructions that have constituent structure in that there is like , , , one
That if we do the constructions right when a particular construction matches , it the fact that it matches , does specify the focus .
There are constrai , it 's not every but there are constructions , , where you t explicitly take into account those considerations
So that 's why I was talking about overlapping constructions .
So that should , , interact with it should overlap with whatever other construction is there .
I n I don't have as many great examples of like topic - indicating constructions
, and so one thing that , , we had talked about is this example of like , if you have a passive construction then one thing it does is ch definitely , it is one way to for you to , , specifically take the perspective of the undergoing object .
But it 's not perceived as a quotative construction .
my argument is there 's nothing you can do with that you can't do by just having more constructions .

but in particular , that it 's some animate nominal ,
and which will apply just as to like , , a per , a simple proper noun
But we want to be uncommitted about whether it 's used for matching or not . Right ?
So that whether or not it 's used for matching or only for verification , I
OK , so if you have like " the big red ball " , , you wanna know if there 's an object or a noun .
the r the , , " big red ball " ,
And , , you might be able to say things like if the head has to go last in a head - final language , you can refer to the head as a p the , the formal head as opposed to the rest of the form having to be at the end of that decision .
So a nominal expression is , the fact that it 's animate , is semantic .
, , construal is a b is a big component of that
it 's the thing that w a parser might want to think about whether we require
Keith was telling me , things toward the end of the sentence , post - verbal , tend to be the focused element ,
Li - , , the best thing come up with is that information has a list of focused elements .
OK . Anyway . So that 's onl there are there are many more things that are uncl that are like a little bit unstable about the notation
So that 's that 's the main thing we wanted to aim for
hhh , the phonology component can handle actually assigning an intonation contour to that .
that 's that 's , th that 's certainly true .
that you need to take into account in order to decide which what is being focused .
But it 's still is limited possibility .
And this is a big scale comment before I , , look into the details of this .
And actually it 's just a list of various slots from which you would draw in order to paint your picture , a bunch of frames , bi and bindings , right ?
I almost listed " discourse status " as a slot where you could say it 's active .
, I wou I would say that I tried to keep slots here that were potentially relevant to most things .
OK , it 's so it 's it 's fine where it is .
So , I 'm still just really not clear on what I 'm looking at .
is there a slot in here for that tells you how the bindings are done ?
And bindings to ontology items .
So that the who that this is the tool kit under whi out of which you can make a semantic specification .
Other frames that could come in , unfortunately you could bring in say , , , " desire " like that ,
e so th it 'd be a hierarchical frame them , right ?
And then when we combine constructions semantically , the goal is going to be to fill out more and more of the bindings needed in order to come up with the final one .
So it 's it 's Fred and Mary ,
Except s it 's it 's trickier than that
And I 'm gonna read the transcript of this one .
So there should be no categorical difference between your base and all the others that ensue .
No , but there 's there 's a Gricean thing going on there ,
it 's it 's converging .
she modified the GUI so it has now a m a button menu item for saving it into the embedded JavaBayes format .
how you asked whether we can , like , just observe all the variables like in the same list ?
OK , that 's that 's a bit unfortunate

No . That was just a mistake of cut and paste from when I was going with it .
Minor min problem
and the " would " it 's a different dimension of hypothe - theticality , right ?
, , that 's my feeling that these are really hard , problems that decide exactly what 's going on .
It 's it 's his thesis , right ?
OK . , , , I wouldn't have assumed that it 's an easy problem in absence of all the oth
It 's a grab bag of
, to Eva on our web site we can now ,
But you , it 's a good it 's a good thing to put in your thesis proposal .
But the question is do you want to , , send the little group , , a draft of your thesis proposal

OK , it 's like , it 's not it might be that there 's a syntactic , , device that you use to indicate focus
which is , " , the focus we have is we 're emphasizing this value often as opposed to other values " , right ?
So focus carries along a scope .
Like if you 're gonna focus on this thing and you wanna know it evokes all the other possibilities that it wasn't .
and say , " hey , that 's my focus exponent . "
because , , as a form cue , , not even trained experts can always , they can tell you where the focus exponent is sometimes .
Or or map from the contour to what the focus exponent is .
Or it might limit it cert certainly constrains the possibilities of focus .
And depending on the construction it may or may not f specify the focus , right ?
Just with a different foc focus constituent ?
There 's almost , we keep coming back to how focus is like this , , trajector - landmark thing .
discourse level constructions in a sense , topic - focus constructions that would say , " , when you focus something " then
So that 's his that 's the best way of talking about focus , is his way .

it 's only slightly more stable than it was before .
t , and distinguish that from it 's effect
OK , so this doesn't include something which mi may have some effect on it ,
ki the ones I included here are slightly arbitrary
, and then the " status " I used was like , again , in some languages , , like in child language you might distinguish between different status .
And it happens diff under different circumstances in different languages .
, it 's an it 's an evidential .
Actually one of the child language researchers who works with T Tomasello studied a bunch of these constructions
It 's as far as tell there 's this one major thing we have to do

, " , this event takes place before speech time " , OK , is what this means .
and then there are many in more interestingly , linguistically anyway , there are relative things that , , you relate the event in time and space to where you are now .
And that 's also mostly true for read speech .
if it 's a group whether , , some event is happening ,
But anyway , there 's som some causal structure for composite events .
So you 'll say , " event one causes event B
It 's like it 's like what 's happening that , , what 's happening , , there is that you 're moving the base space like that , right ?

, as usual they 're before and ends .
but they 're just us usually they 're going to be value fillers , right ?
You 're missing like the premier American holiday ?
So so we 're like having our cake and eating it
Now we 're s now that " Watergate " we 're now talking about the real one ,
And , , you 're you 're the linguist
but they 're they 're different meanings .
, , th critically they 're not required syntactically .
Often they 're pres presu presupposed and all that .
But , , if you what you 're what you 're focus is then you 're you 're hopeless - - ly lost anyways ,
, they 're contex and , I used to have a location thing there
You 're but it 's used for identification purposes .
But in actual fact , that they 're intended to be neutral with respect to that .
if you 're trying to have the nuts and bolts of simulation you need to know that , , whatever , the holder doesn't and
And they 're bound up in , , their bindings and and values .
I let 's see , we 're we 're not
So They 're more lexically marked , right ?
and they 're how they 're bound together .
And therefore you 're supposed to say , " Boy , life "
You 're when you hear something you 're told who the speaker is
OK , we 're crossing our fingers .
So that d that does sound like it 's co consistent with what we 're saying , .
, and we 're going to have to s bound the complexity .
So so we 're gonna get the w we 're dealing with two domains ,
So that we say these are the things we 're really gonna try do by the end of the summer
and you 're you 're coupling a bunch of them together .
And then ins instead of proving you 're trying to , , compute the most likely .

So the result of m much thinking since the last time we met , , but not as much writing , , is a sheet that I have a lot of , like , thoughts and justification of comments on
So what 's the what 's the time frame ?
but it we doesn't don't necessarily want to , , unload all the notation every time we see that it 's past tense .
, you could imagine for both of those are absolute things you could say about the time and place ,
An individual sentence could mean a hundred different things depending on , quote , " what the space configuration is at the time of utterance " .
it is still required , say , by simulation time though
linear time , linear spaces ,
but by the time you 're simulating you sh y you should know that .
, but you Don't we ultimately want to handle that analogously to the way we handle time and place ,
every time Nancy giggles it means it means that it 's your job .
You have to make separate queries every time .
for the time being it 's it 's fine to do it
, but that 's a different discussion for a different time .

You could build up an appropriately , appropriate structure according to the l the sentence .
The information in the sentence tells you that much
, there 's not that much information contained in the sentence .
Add this structure to this space . "
, so that 's to keep " focus " being an information structure term .
, , I 'm inclined to say let 's worry about specifying the information structure focus of the sentence
, I would say that argument structure in terms of like the main like ,
since I couldn't think of an easy like limited way of doing it , , all say is that information structure has a focused slot
So again , information structure has a topic slot .
but this is the full range of semantic structures available to you .
These are all so far these structures , especially from " path " and on down , these are relatively familiar , , image schematic slots .
OK , that 's where the information structure is
, what 's interesting is that the information structure
If it 's a new thing you 'd have to like create a structure or whatever .
But rather than try to a inheritance structure and all that before we we 're doing .

OK , and then again semantic constraints here are just are just bindings .
And so it was an issue whether constraints , there were some linguists who reacted against " constraints " , saying , " , if it 's not used for matching , then it shouldn't be called a constraint " .
So that 's why you put semantic constraints up top and meaning bindings down here ?
Th - so this definitely should be " semantic constraints " down at the bottom ?
so that you can get some internal structural constraints in .
as long as Mark isn't around , these are form constraints .
But it y it 's , just moving it moving the c the cons the constraints around .
, the un the un - addressed questions in this , , definitely would be semantic constraints we talked about .
But it 's got to be pieces of this along with constraints among them .

one thing that I didn't do consistently , , is when we get there , is like indicate what thing fits into every role .
No , just to make that we everybody that 's completely that it has nothing to do with , , form .
let 's suppose for the moment it 's complete .
And sadly enough he also just left the IMS in Stuttgart .
And the role shift thing is completely left out and so on .
, completely from scratch every time you do construal .
But it 's in that respect it 's completely scalable .

let 's start b let 's start on number two actually on the notation ,
it 's pro it 's often sometimes the case in the first case here that what construction it is .
, or you could just say in the second case that you only know the meaning type .
which might be too restrictive in case we don't have only bindings .
And there 's there 's ca some cases where the grammar depends on some form property of the head .
In the second case we 're imagining hypothetically that Nixon had apologized right away
Or maybe that 's like a restrictive , non - restrictive
in which case it 'd be created here ,
In which case they have to check to see , , who the , , speaker in here wa in order to resolve those .
d doesn't start with some because it 's so obvi it should be so obvious , at least it is to me , that whenever I say something I could preface that with " . "
because every time you start to do something you say , " , , but what about this case ? "

I forgot to include that you could have a type included in this line .
So so the current syntax is if it s if there 's a type it 's before construct
And as usual I all the constructions her all the examples here have only , , tsk one type of constituent ,
so I if the syntax will hold but something that gives you a way to do both constructional and meaning types .
, right now it 's a c contr construction type and meaning type .
So you could say " construct of type whatever designates something " .
, you , one other type that I forgot to mention is like query elements
, no , it 's like X - sc it 's it 's like I was thinking of type constraints
So the difference is whether you thought it was obvious what the possible fillers were .
, " aspectual type " probably isn't obvious

Cuz there are we thought of some situations where it would be useful to use whatever the c bindings are , for
which is , , the discourse situation context record ,
but actually that 's a property of the situation .
, like " Naomi wants su a certain situation
and that situation itself is a state of affairs " .
So for a particular segment it 's really just a reference to some other entity again in the situation , right ?
If it 's an old thing it could be referring to , , usually w something in a situation , right ?
OK , so a situation like " Bob said he was going to the movies " , where that lower subject is the same as the person who was saying or thinking , you 're actually required to have " I " there .
T 's , therefore we need everything that configures to what the situation is ,
plus the situation and the user model .

, for now I 'm gonna say like " profile " 's often used
So " hypotenuse " , you profiled this guy against the background of the right t right triangle .
They use it to really mean , , this in a frame th this is the profiles on the these are the ones that are required .
it 's it is like a profile - background thing
Topic - focused seems to me like , , background profile , OK ,

So if there 's some element that doesn't that isn't yet constructional in the sense that it maps form and meaning .
meaning category is what 's there .
about what meaning what specific meaning you want .
So we have a few funny things where something in the meaning might refer to something in the form .
A , and a previous , , , version of the notation certainly allowed you to single out the meaning bit by it .
just to refer to the meaning pole .
I don't think that it was often used to give an extra meaning const type constraint on the meaning ,
And you could get , , " the kicked dog " like that , meaning " kicked the dog " .
the form did constrain the meaning ,
cuz it seems like any entity in any sentence , , or any meaning component of anyth all the possible meanings you could have , any of them could be the subject of focus .
And it 's like , , I feel like if I wanted to have an extra meaning
So if I wanted to I would stick in an extra frame in my meaning , saying ,

I 'm thinking , possibly a little more familiar to , to people .
but there 's vestiges of other people 's biases .
The fact that it 's n , a nominal expression I would say on most people 's notion of f , higher form types , this i this is one .
I don't - , there 's lots of different ways in the world that people use it .
In in real speech , , people may put stress .
If you study how people use that it 's also
we just won't deal with sarcastic people .
assuming that people were being helpful and weren't trying to d
because it forces the Meeting Recorder people to cut , the discussions short .

So that 's why That 's why I 'll stick with it .
So there 's going to be some extra , definitely other notation we 'll need for that which we skip for now .
, we 'll we 'll get that on the other side a little , like very minimally .
We 'll we 'll again defer .
But it did one implication it does f have for the other side , which we 'll get to in a minute is that I couldn't think of a good way to say " here are the possible things that you could focus on " ,
I forg it 'll be a frame .
, it 'll be it 'll be another predication or it 'll be , , I , some value from some something , some variable and scope like that ,
but alternative semantics is if you type that into an , , browser or search engine you 'll get tons of .
, and then when Robert gets back we 'll look at the set of them .
And then we 'll we 'll go back over it
And then we 'll have a at least initial spec of what we 're actually trying to do .
And that 'll also be useful for anybody who 's trying to write a parser .
and other things we 'll put on a list of research problems ,

. None of these examples have anything different for formal constraints ?
Like if you were giving a formal constraint then you 're referring to the formal pole of that .
and we 're talking about formal struc Which which makes sense .
, you definitely want to de - couple the formalism from the parsing strategy .
But it 's what it , it 's pretty easy to put it in the formalism , though .
, just , , look read even sem semi formal Mats Rooth .
It 's semi - grammaticalized .

But you can refer to any of the , , available elements and scope ,
The F subscripts refer to the " form " piece of the construct .
So , , we could think of our , just like X - schema " walk " refers to this complicated structure , past refers to , , a certain configuration of this thing with respect to it .
like the question is , what does " Watergate " refer to there ?
And this is intended to be grammatically specifiable information about a referent , , about some entity that you were going to talk about .
Or , , like your referring expression might be constrained by certain like unbounded na amounts of prep , predications that you might make .
So you might imagine that the information you pass to , in identifying a particular referent would be , " , some " , " it 's a guy
Right , so the constructions might will refer , using pronouns or whatever .
You you will already have figured who " he " or " you " , mmm , or " I " , maybe is a bett better example , who " I " refers to .
S so OK , so I would say ref under referent should be something that corresponds to " I " .
And maybe each referent should probably have a list of way whatever , the way it was referred to .
, if it were " Harry " it would refer to like some ontology thing .
So of having like for each referent , having the list of the things t with which it is identified .
it depends on if it is a referring exp if it 's identifiable already or it 's a new thing .

but it 's most it 's this is , , the current form .
so you have to say something about , , tense is determined relative to current blah - blah .
But like what are the distinctions among those that we actually care about for our current purposes ?
Right , so , , this raises the question of what are our current purposes .

Robert 's not happy now ?
What 's the point of spending a year here ?
I like I like spending fourth of July in other countries , whenever .
I 'm gonna point to at random .
But the whole point of the whole point of what Fauconnier and Turner have to say about , , mental spaces , and blending , and all that is that you don't really get that much out of the sentence .
OK , so , , one other thing want to point out is there 's a lot of confusion about the terms like " profile , designate , focus " , et cetera , et cetera .
Whenever I 'm confused just point to him .
And and these could actually just point to , , the ID in my other list of enti active entities , right ?
And it 's again , time , at cert certain points things are located , , near or far from you
, that 's why I said " point to Robert " , when I did it .
And y if you want us to spend a pleasant six or seven hours you could get George started on that .
So , and , , someone had raised like sarcasm as a complication at some point .

And then , you might know something much more specific depending on what construction you 're talking about ,
, where it 's contextually dependent ,
So , depending on the linguistic con , context it could be
But , , we have the properties of dependency grammars and some properties of constituents constituent - based grammar .
It 's so d context dependent on what was there before , phrase ba breaks , , restarts .
that I noticed that , , list was discourse dependent .
all these expressions , nuh , are in much the same way contextually dependent as " here , " and " now , " and " there "
, and it 's in an extended function
And then when you embed them sometimes you have to pop up to the h , depending on the construction or the whatever , , you you 're scope is m might extend out to the base one .
and the fact that I 'm , the fact maybe if it versus he thinks that might , , depending on how much you trust the two of us or whatever ,
and you need the context dependent modules .

there is a slight complication here which is that when we talk about form it 's useful sometimes to talk about , to talk about there also being a designated object
, in the short run all we need is a enough mechanism on the form side to get things going .
So that 's that 's how Fauconnier would talk about it .
And so I what I 'd like to do is in the short run focus on getting it right .
So I would say in the short run we 're not gonna b
if you want to run JavaBayes , , you could see get download these classes .
We 're really running late ,
also maybe then run through the , the talk I have to give at EML

So there 's this issue of sometimes there are really exotic explicit space builders that say " in France , blah - blah " ,
So " in France , , Watergate wouldn't have hurt Nixon " like that .
, , you say , " alright , I 'm supposed to add some structure to my model of this hypothetical past France universe " like that .
if you just hear that sentence cold , the assumption is that when you say " Watergate " you 're referring to " a Watergate - like scandal as we might imagine it happening in France " .
But in a different context , " , , if Nixon had apologized right away it wouldn't , Watergate wouldn't have hurt him so badly in the US
In the first case , hypothetically we 're imagining that Watergate happened in France .
And then how they interact with some extra thing like " in France " or " if such - and - such " , that 's like there are certain ways that they c they can
, but like what was the point of saying that sentence about Nixon and France ?
, " in France kids are allowed to drink at age three " .
And w you 're that 's not just a fact about France .
So similarly for a whole sentence , , " in France such - and - such happens " .

, and then they say the key word construction
But in general instead of the word " construct " , th here you might have " meaning " or " form " as .
, the main change with the constructs which each of which has , , the key word " construct " and then some name , and then some type specification , is that it 's
So whatever I have here is gonna be a form of the word " throw " ,
or it 's gonna be a form of the word , , I , " happy " , like that .
Or , , some it 'll be a specific word
, , there was one time when Hans explained why " constraints " was a misleading word for him .
Anyway , so the other the other strategy you guys could consider is when you what word to put , you could put no word ,
and the entity denoted by the word " ball " is the semantic head in some ways of this , , in interesting larger element .
So you wanna , you have this problem like " OK , , I 'll put the word " , , let 's say , the word " dog " ,
Because you might want to say that , , location or cert certain WH words bring , automatically focus in a , , " I the identity of this thing " way on certain elements .
, among the twenty - five percent most used words .
great word in the English language is called " about " .

So you see it 's " scenario " , " referent " and " discourse segment " .
So , th the big com and finally " discourse segment " is about speech - act - y information structure - y ,
So the comment I was going to make about , , changing entity the entity 's block to reference is that you can imagine your discourse
And you might that might be a general , I , database of all the things in this discourse that you could refer to .
So maybe that would , , be some intermediate structure that you would pass into the disc to the , whatever , construal engine or whatever , discourse context , to find , either create this reference ,
And actually there is right now under " discourse segments " , , " attitude " ?
, things like pronoun reference and tense which we 're thinking of as being these discourse - y things actually are relative to a Bayes space
, so only the ontology relevant from the discourse

So one option that , , Keith had mentioned also was like , if you have more abstract constructions such as subject , predicate , things like grammatical relations ,
And that 's the wh and , that according to the party line , that 's the whole story .
We have a theoretical model of sarcasm now .
So , , probabilistic , whatever , relational models .
It 's related to the Hobbs abduction story

we might want to introduce mental spaces
Just , , as a a mental bridge , I 'm not I 'm skipping fourth of July .
, it 's often thought of as it is also considered a mental space ,
And then for other spaces that you introduce , you could just attach y
, I 'm I 'm s curious about how much of the mental
, I 'm not that the formalism , the grammatical side of things , is gonna have that much going on in terms of the mental space .
cuz until we do the , mental space story , we 're not quite Th - th
So we 're building a mental space , good .
, we might be able to handle context in the same way that we handle mental spaces
So that pulling something out of a discourse context is similar to other kinds of , , mental space phenomena .
, that pronoun references , , , ties in with all this mental space and so on , and .
OK , so it 's like the unspecified mental spaces just are occurring in context .
Mmm , isn't , I 'm I was dubious why he even introduces this reality , , as your basic mental space
which is the mental the whole s mental space thing .
So that 's just a tangent , a couple of mental disclaimers here .

aside from , , construed and all that , the differences are mainly that , we 've gone to the possibility of having form - meaning pairs for a type
so something like " past " which i , we think is a very simple , we 've often just stuck it in as a feature ,
assuming that at any point in discourse there 's the possibility that we could be talking about a bunch of different world scenarios , whatever , and the speaker 's supposed to be keeping track of those . The , the construction that you actually get is just gonna give you a cue as to which one of those that you 've already got going , , you 're supposed to add structure to .
but , , it seems to me that th these we , we 've talked about maybe a half a dozen linguistics theses in the last few minutes .
there 's another term that I 've heard for that thing
So we 've talked about if you 're talking about the lexical item " walk " ,
, we 've had a lot of other that Keith and I have them working on in terms of like how you deal with like an adjective .
, so far we 've been getting away with like either a type constraint or , , , whatever .
, th there 's there 's all this about discourse status . We 've talked about .
we 've often used " agent " , " patient " , obser
we 've learned something about France
Now , this is this is assuming you 've already solved that .
, I 've I 've never seen anybody write that up
but to focus really detailed work on the subset of things that we 've we really want to get done .

It 's that now , , I 'm mentioned this ,
I mentioned in the last meeting , the point of having something called " nominal expression " is , ,
because it seems like having the verb subcategorize for , , like say taking as its object just some expression which , , designates an object or designates a thing , or whatever , , that leads to some syntactic problems ?
cuz we know verb meets its object .
And so you 'd have this problem that the verb has to meet the designatum .
know that this is Like , we didn't originally have in mind that , that verbs would subcategorize for a particular form .
in such a way that subject , predicate , or subject , predicate , subject , verb , ob , verb object would require that those things that f fill a subject and object are NOM expressions .
, so my classic my now - classic example of saying , " , he did go to the meeting ? " ,
, now that it 's subject is more like a topic .
There 's things like ther , there 's all kinds of like , , in I mentioned last time in Czech if you have a verb of saying then
, , the past tense being copied onto the lower verb doesn't happen there ,

And so one on one side is on one side is a the revised updated semantic specification .
And the other side is , , a revised construction formalism .
that 's the other side of information .
should we flip over to the other side officially then ?
But B , which is more relevant to your life , is this is also the tool kit that is used in the semantic side of constructions .
So this is an that anything you have , in the party line , anything you have as the semantic side of constructions comes , from pieces of this ignoring li
Can I ask a quick question about this side ?

, specific X - schema frames .
Because this partly came from , , Talmy 's schema
And others are a little bit seemingly inherently dynamic
And different X - schemas use them in a way that 's either static or dynamic .
, , it 's gonna be something in the X - schema that tells you " is this static or is this dynamic " .
Agent , , the performer of the X - schema ,
part of what I 'm going to hand you is a whole bunch of s , schemas , image , and X - schemas .
Bed015Edialogueact1254	276824	277096	E	Grad	s	-1	0	Here are some examples of the sorts of things you might have in there .
which just tells you how various what schemas you 're using
, telling you what percent reality you should give this
Even with just semantic schemas we have some examples .

or " there was a whole list of possible speaker attitudes that like say Talmy listed .
And what I 'm confused about is what the speaker and the hearer is doing there .
And down there in the speaker - hearer part ?
, , it 's the speaker may in English is allowed to say " I . "
If it were if it 's " I " it would refer to the current speaker ,
Hhh , I there used to be a slot for speaker , ,
We we don't have to care too much about the speaker attitude , right ?
There 's lots of different attitudes that the speaker could have and that we can clearly identify , and so on , and .
, in model theory cuz the semantics is always like " speaker believes not - P " ,
because it forces us to think a little bit more carefully how we want to get an out output .

that , , the other terms that are related are like focus and stress .
And when you , , you have stress on something that might be , , a cue that the stressed element , or , the negated element is related to information structure .
So , , like " stress " , th stress is a pun on you might have like whatever , like , , accent stress .
, w we 'll want to distinguish stress as a form device .
, there 's all these different things that if you put stress on a different part of it then you 're , c focusing , whatever , on ,
canonically speaking you can if you look at a curve over sentence , you can find out where a certain stress is
You mean t forget about stress , the form cue ?
So , then you have a separate thing that picks out , , stress on something relative to everything else .
S s the question is , do we have a way on the other page , , when we get to the s semantic side , of saying what the stressed element was , or stressed phrase , .
If you stressed , , " John went to the " , , " the bar " whatever , you 're focusing that
and then just tell it to negate whatever the content of that is in terms of irony

Sometimes I 'm intentionally inconsistent
Is this , was it intentional to leave off things like " inherits "
, , there should be I wanted to s find out someday if there was gonna be some way of dealing with , , if this is the right term , multiple inheritance ,
where one construction is inheriting from , from both parents ,
, and inheritance is only one , that 's one way to organize it

You 'll say " I need a p spatial relation phrase here "
It 's it 's the equivalent of a noun phrase or a prepositional phrase , like that there .
If you have an " if - then " phrase , do what the " then " phrase is called ?
, ball is going to be the designated element of that phrase .
So the ball is the head of the phrase ,
, this is not reverting to the X - bar theory of phrase structure .
and it w and that would have to it might be ambiguous as , , whether it picks up that element , or the phrase , like that .
put just the phrase " " as a parenthetical in the middle of a sentence and so on , and .

Purely linguistic cues , right ?
, the purely form cues , .
that was the example that was caught on by the linguists immediately .
There 's that quote in Jurafsky and Martin where it goes where some guy goes , " every time I fire a linguist the performance of the recognizer goes up . "
It 's uglier and it d doesn't have the deep linguistic insights and .

But to make it m precise at least in my mind , , it 's not precise .
this came up when , , Ben and I were working with the Spaniards , , the other day
, and my suggestion to Keith is that you , over the next couple weeks , n
, the construal bit that , , has been pointed to but hasn't been , , made precise by any means , , may w may work as follows .
we have , , precise format in which to write it ,
And if this can be made to work , that 'd be funky .
Thursday 's my last day here .

that 's actually gonna turn out to m be certainly the most common kind .
So a very common example of this is that , , in directed motion , the first person to do something should be an agent of some kind ,
So the example again at the bottom , which is directed motion ,
which is , The question was did we want directed motion ,
, and then you 'd just be able to refer to Harry , , in wherever that person whatever role that person was playing in the event .

And , , after a little bit more discussion and especially like Keith and I have more linguistic things to settle in the next few days , , it 'll probably change again some more .
And certain things that have , , changed , have changed back to this .
but about changing it to " semantic n effects " ,
So now , , this is actually this little change actually goes along with a big linguistic change ,
, that , , is it , , a state or is it a change of state , or is it a , , action of some kind ?
But the reason why I left it in is cuz you might have a change of state , let 's say , where some state holds and then some state doesn't hold ,

you might need a nominal expression to take the place of , , , " the big th " , , " the big the tall dark man " , , " walked into the room " .
Or Actually it 's more often that , only to handle this one special case of , , " George and Jerry walk into the room in that order " .
, if I " I walked into the room " , you tend to think that , whatever , " into the room " is like the more focused thing .
he walked to the meeting as opposed to " he ran " ,
or " he did walk to the meeting " as opposed to " he didn't walk " . ,
So , you could say it 's the tense on this as opposed to , , the action . OK .
So " Harry walked into the room " ,

which is that " designates " isn't only something for the semantics to worry about now .
So we want s " designates " to actually know one of the constituents which acts like a head in some respects
One is in the traditional like semantic highlight of one element with respect to everything else .
the " designate " that we have in terms of meaning is really the " highlight this thing with respect to everything else " . OK ?

, one thing I 'm uncertain about is how polarity interacts .
So we had started with the idea that the actual , , constraint was related to this tourist domain
and the kinds of interactions that might occur in the tourist domain ,
which you isn't probably of much use in dealing with a tourist guide .
the tourist domain and the and the child language learning .
It 's just you need an ontology of the domain

the idea of sorting out what the person meant .
, it also has this idea it carries along with it the idea of an actor
Or if you talk about an adjective " red " , it carries along the idea of the thing that has the property of having color red .
So it 's that I meant the idea of like that the semantic value is filled in by sim simulation .
but I should have So , neglected to stick something in . " Perspective " , " actor " , " undergoer " , " observer " , ,
, there 's all sorts of God knows , irony , and like
and then we have an idea of the initial range .
And the thing about this idea is that you don't ever have to sit down and think about it or write about it .

The idea is that sometimes there are , , general constructions that , that you 're going to need .
And that , , in general it 'll be unambiguous .
, one is a more specific version of the general pattern that the grammat grammar gives you .
But the not inherently like the general principles still work though ,
and the only way of figuring out what that is , is , , by generating all the possible alternatives to each focused element , decide which one in that context makes sense and which one doesn't .
general cultural frames and general like , , other action f
, in general , you ignore lots of it .
And then my proposal would be to , , not cut off more general discussion
And then as a separate thread , think about the more general things and all that .
, I also think the detailed discussion will hit , bring us to problems that are of a general nature
So , is that does that make sense as a , a general way to proceed ?
You may have some general rules as to how things can be can be construed as what , so that will allow you to craft the the initial notes .
See the critical thing about the PRM is it gives these relations in general form .
but there but the , , The cove the P R Ms are like rules of inference

if there is a form category constraint , you could imagine having a triple there that says , that 's weird .
and you have to build up you ha you would imagine that would require you , , to be very specific about the machinery ,
this would involve everything you can imagine to fit under your C dot something
but you could imagine that , , you need to figure out wheth
N now , for the moment we just need the ability to l write it down if somebody figured out what the rules were .
You could imagine that you skip out this , leave off this polarity ,
, imagine you write a Bayes - net ,
, since you can unfold a PRM into a straightforward Bayes - net
Except there 's no theorem prover involved .

what is now ,
Bed015Adialogueact502	106333	106429	A	Grad	qh	-1	0	what was past ,
Bed015Fdialogueact500	106284	106321	F	Grad	b	-1	0	Mm - .
Bed015Adialogueact503	106429	106519	A	Grad	qh	-1	0	what is in the future ,
Bed015Adialogueact504	106519	106561	A	Grad	qh	-1	0	where is this ,
Bed015Adialogueact505	106561	106605	A	Grad	qh	-1	0	what is here ,
Bed015Adialogueact506	106605	106664	A	Grad	qh	-1	0	what is there ,
Bed015Adialogueact507	106664	106712	A	Grad	qh%--	-1	0	what is
John is on the bus ,
Bed015Adialogueact906	199063	199162	A	Grad	s:s	-1	0	not Nancy .
So that 's focuses on John .
John is on the bus and not on the train .
John is on the bus versus " John is on the train . "
And " John is on the bus " versus " was " , and e

and exactly what that means for the overall ongoing interpretation is quite open .
or a slot chain based on a variable and scope .
And " scenario " is essentially what what 's the basic predication ,
, and I left the slot , " predications " , open
Then " predications " makes sense to have it open for something like , , accessibility or not .
I was just checking like , when we wanna , , get the posterior probability of , like , variables .

actual , , like modified constraining purposes .
, , all of these so - called space builders that are in the sentence are going to
, a sentence examples you gave in f did constrain the meaning b
, but maybe I 'm mixing , this is like the final result after parsing the sentence .
But what I want to do is is to constrain the things that we really feel responsible for .

So if you don't have like a lot of grammar experience , then like this might , , be a little o opaque .
you can just say whatever , " i is the container being focused or the entire whatever , both , and . "
like a container or support - ish .
like " source , path , goal " is often thought of that way
And for a particular instance which I will , , make an example of something , is that you might have an instance of container and path , let 's say , as part of your , , " into " , definition .
So you would eventually have instances filled in with various values for all the different slots .
, so that the , , goal of the , , " source , path , goal " has to be the landmark of the conta , the interior of this container .
And that fills in your CPT 's with which you can then query , , the net that you just wrote
So once you have instantiated the PRM with the instances and ther then you can then you can unfold it .

OK , so the top block is just a abstract nota
And i if you not if you compare like the top block and the textual block , , we dropped like the little F subscript .
so the middle block doesn't really give you any more information , ex than the top block .
And the bottom block similarly only just illus , all it does is illustrate that you can drop the subscripts and that you can drop the , , that you can give dual types .
So , , strike out the M subscript on the middle block .
So maybe having made that big sca like large scale comment , should go through each of these slots , each of these blocks , , a little bit ?
, mostly the top one is image schematic .
, to decide like how you want to split up , like , s image schematic contributions versus , like , X - schematic contributions .

And just pick any paper on alternative semantics .
He wrote a paper about thirty - five years ago on that one .
Would you believe that paper lead directly to the development of anti - lock brakes ?
Just a white piece of paper .
then y you 'd simply write , , these into onto your white piece of paper .
You can just give him the abstract that we wrote for the paper .

, you could say that , , , " name - one dot " , t , " number equals " , , a plural like that .
So a lot of this isn't happening at the grammatical level .
It seems like , , the grammatical things such as the auxiliaries that introduce these conditionals , whatever , give you the most basi
Which which I 'm not saying one and two are mutually exclusive
But the important things for grammatical purposes are for things like number , gender ,
So " house " is gender neuter ?

