or so That 's ab er , i
That 's that 's the thing I 'm curious ab
And so that 's where a lot of knowledge about bakeries , about hotels , about castles and is gonna come from .
It 's blackboards and multi - wave blackboards

u I 'm , at the moment , curious and I 'm s w want to approach it from the end where we can s start with this toy system that we can play around with ,
It 's a m pragmatic approach , , at the moment .
Because i that 's A lot of what it 's gonna be , is , , playing with this .
. So the answer , Johno , is that these are , at the moment , separate .

Now , , we found in our , , data and from experiments , that there 's three things you can do .
And , what we can do , if we look closer a closer at the data
. Sometimes I found in the , looking at the data , in a superficial way , I found some s modifiers that m may also give us a hint ,
to see whether we can , then , get empirically validated data .
And I 'm even i the most , , deliberate data collection experiment will never give you data that say , " , if it 's phrased like that , the intention is this . "
, my is we aren't gonna have enough data that 's good enough to make the these data fitting ones worth it ,
and we have some data that 's loose ,
. , I like , , the what you said about the getting input from just files about where you h where you have the data , have specified the features and .
and so they 're actually annotating data and data .
and then we can think about this idea of making up the data file .

Right , so if I said , " , hi Jerry , how are you ? " , we 're not gonna go through and cancel out the " Jerry "s .
So , we 're we 're working with SRI ,
So you guys who got email about this f , Friday about what we 're up to .
Unless you 're interested in rock climbing , it won't do you no good standing there .
hints to the fact that you 're not really sightseeing and just f there for pleasure and and so on .
You 're editing your slide ?
In general you 're , it 's gonna be much more complex than that .
and that 's all they 're going to provide .
So , they 're they 're quite distinct .
Imagine you 're the subject .
There 're even ones tha that you can do learning
So we 're not we 're not abs we 're not required to use their packages .

So one thing you could do is build a little system that , said , " whenever you got a question like that I 've got one of three answers .
I have one more point to Bhaskara 's question .
, that 's a question mark .
, " I 'm sitting here with a map and asking questions " ,
and I 'm not really , , how e the question of how to make it a t appropriate toy version of that , it 's ju it 's just hard .
So , like , the question is how what features can like , do you wanna try to extract from , say , the parse or whatever ?
And and that altogether could also be , become a paper that 's going to be published somewhere , if we sit down and write it .

I a good way of doing it on the audio , and still have people who are doing discourse research be able to use the data .
Because otherwise we couldn't get our GIS system to take to lead people this way .
, and there 's , a lot more different ways in people , the ways people phrase how to g get if they want to get to a certain place .
So , this is how people may , may phrase those requests to a a mock - up system at least that 's the way they did it .
Pe - people don't wanna enter them .
And , if it 's not obvious , you may want to actually , point out to people that it 's closed , what they 're g going to is closed and they don't have the option of entering it .
because where people ask you , " Where is New York ? " , you will tell them it 's on the East Coast .
But , , you gotta leave something for other people to model .
But it 's something , , that would provide some very interesting data for some people I know .
Which is one that fair people around here use a fair amount .
So that i that 's why a lot of people doing research use that .
if we , , get really w wild on this , we may actually want to use some corpora that other people made

Maybe for a deep understanding task , that 's a playground or first little thing . "
OK , we need , we gonna get those M - three - L structures .
Bed002Bdialogueact345	114153	114371	B	Grad	s	-1	0	The crude , undifferentiated parse .
Bed002Bdialogueact346	114435	114555	B	Grad	s^e	-1	0	Interpreted input .
Bed002Bdialogueact347	114672	115529	B	Grad	s	-1	0	We may need additional part of speech , or maybe just some information on the verb , and modifiers , auxiliaries .
Bed002Bdialogueact348	115586	11563	B	Grad	s^rt	-1	0	We 'll see .
Bed002Bdialogueact349	115703	116124	B	Grad	s^cc^rt	+1	And I will try to come up with a list of factors that we need to get out of there ,
Bed002Bdialogueact350	116187	116562	B	Grad	s	+1	0	and maybe we want to get a g switch for the context .
Bed002Bdialogueact351	116596	117036	B	Grad	s	-1	0	So this is not something which we can actually monitor , now ,
Bed002Bdialogueact352	117097	117246	B	Grad	s	-1	0	but just is something we can set .
Bed002Bdialogueact353	117379	118088	B	Grad	s	-1	0	And then you can all imagine a constrained satisfaction program , depending on what , , comes out .
Bed002Bdialogueact354	11813	118438	B	Grad	s%--	-1	0	We want to have an a structure resulting
Bed002Bdialogueact355	118486	119762	B	Grad	s	+1	if we feed it through a belief - net along those lines . We 'd get an inferred intention , we produce a structure that differentiates between the Vista , the Enter , and the , , Tango mode .
Bed002Bdialogueact356	119814	12011	B	Grad	s	-1	0	Which we maybe want to ignore .
Bed002Bdialogueact357	12012	120304	B	Grad	s^rt	-1	0	But . That 's my idea .
Bed002Bdialogueact358	120322	120402	B	Grad	s	-1	0	It 's up for discussion .
Bed002Bdialogueact359	120462	120586	B	Grad	s	-1	0	We can change all of it ,
Bed002Bdialogueact360	120586	120679	B	Grad	s	-1	0	any bit of it .
Bed002Bdialogueact361	120869	120931	B	Grad	s	-1	0	Throw it all away .
Bed002Fdialogueact362	121157	121305	F	Grad	s	-1	0	Now @ @ this email that you sent , actually .
Bed002Cdialogueact363	12131	121335	C	Professor	qw^br	-1	0	What ?
Bed002Fdialogueact364	121345	12143	F	Grad	s	-1	0	Now I remember the email .
Bed002Cdialogueact365	121477	121511	C	Professor	s^bk	-1	0	OK .
Bed002Edialogueact366	121617	121644	E	Grad	b	-1	0	Huh .
Bed002Edialogueact367	121669	122029	E	Grad	s	-1	0	Still , I have no recollection whatsoever of the email .
Bed002Edialogueact368	122029	12214	E	Grad	s	-1	0	I 'll have to go back and check .
Bed002Cdialogueact369	12218	122244	C	Professor	s^ba^bd	-1	0	Not important .
Bed002Cdialogueact370	122364	123063	C	Professor	s	-1	0	So , what is important is that we understand what the proposed task is .
Bed002Cdialogueact371	123198	123574	C	Professor	s	-1	0	And , the i , Robert and I talked about this some on Friday .
Bed002Cdialogueact372	123684	123973	C	Professor	fh|s	-1	0	And we think it 's - formed .
Bed002Cdialogueact373	124027	124884	C	Professor	s	+1	2	So we think it 's a - formed , , starter task for this , , deeper understanding in the tourist domain .
Bed002Fdialogueact374	125295	125527	F	Grad	qw	-1	0	So , where exactly is the , , deeper understanding being done ?
Bed002Fdialogueact375	125527	12571	F	Grad	qy	-1	0	Like , s is it before the Bayes - net ?
Bed002Fdialogueact376	12571	125767	F	Grad	qy%--	-1	0	Is it , 
Bed002Cdialogueact377	125776	126026	C	Professor	s	-1	0	Well , it 's the it 's always all of it .
Bed002Cdialogueact378	126049	126429	C	Professor	s	-1	0	So , in general it 's always going to be , the answer is , everywhere .
Bed002Cdialogueact379	126495	126966	C	Professor	s	-1	0	Uh , so the notion is that , , this isn't real deep .
Bed002Cdialogueact380	127005	127699	C	Professor	s	-1	0	But it 's deep enough that you can distinguish between these th three quite different kinds of , , going to see some tourist thing .
Bed002Cdialogueact381	127794	128162	C	Professor	s	-1	0	And , so that 's that 's the quote deep " that we 're trying to get at .
and this is Bu - I in general it 's gonna be true of any deep understanding ,
, also the the deep understanding part of it is going to be in there to the extent that we , want it in terms of our modeling .
That will be extremely deep in the in my understanding .
at least that 's That 's even what Deep Map does .

a This is purposely a really simple case .
And and it 's clear from the data , , like , sorta the correct answer in each case .
, in both cases it 's gonna be a human , in the computer , and in the operator case .
OK , and then you 'd like to be able to say , " OK , here 's a bunch of cases "

And , my idea on how to combine them is with a belief - net ,
So that the output of the belief - net is pretty formed .
and two , what 's the structure of the belief - net ?
. S so the way that might come up , if you wanna Suppose you wanted to do that , you might say , " , as an intermediate step in your belief - net , is there a Source - Path - Goal schema involved ? "
, th the In some piece of the belief - net , that could be the appropriate thing to enter .
So , the the reason the belief - net is in blue , is the notion would be
and we 're able to , by hand , extract the features to put in the belief - net .
here 're the things which , if you get them out of out of the language and discourse , and put them into the belief - net , it would tell you which of these three , intentions is most likely . "
it i I if it if it 's the belief - nets , we 'll switch to , logic or some terrible thing ,
that , , if we can get the information , a belief - net is a perfectly good way of doing the inferential combination of it .
an and that 's that but that isn't that what we need for a belief - net anyhow ?
But then other factors may come into play that change the outcome of their belief - net .
and then just have a little section in your belief - net that said , " pppt ! "
, do e either of you guys , you got a favorite belief - net that you 've , , played with ?
, we don't need the one that 'll solve massive , , belief - nets quickly .
So it if it turns out that just , thinking about the problem , you come up with things you really need to , this is the thing that is , , an intermediate little piece in your belief - net . That 'd be really interesting .
When you said JavaBayes belief - net you were talking about ones that run on coffee ?
, I 'd like to also , though , , ha have a first cut at what the belief - net looks like .
and when you think you 've got a better belief - net , You just run it against this , this data file .
So we 're gonna do belief - nets this week ,
Johno 's and Bhaskara 's great belief - net ,

, I This , These intentions , we w we could , if we want to , call it the Vista mode ,
But maybe that 's a false state of the system , that it 's too close to call .
Analyzed speech it 's what they call it ,
Is - i but they c they call it intention lattice ,
They call it intention hypotheses .

What 's the time frame for this ?
So this is the time difference between Germany .
I my question was more about time frame .

Because how I describe , t its location , p probably depend on whether I should give them , , directions now , or say , , whatever , " It 's half a mile away " like that .
, I how much direction is given to the subject about what their interaction
, th they 're unfamiliar w with interacting with the system .
, presumably one that 's got good interactive abilities ,
But we do want one in which it 's easy to interact with and , , modify .

Does Nancy know that we 're meeting in here ?
So , we 're trying to do real meetings .
. The idea is that you 'd be able to put a PDA at the table at an impromptu meeting ,
and then be able to do querying and retrieval later on , on the meeting .
is a portable device to do m , information retrieval on meetings .
Other people are interested in other aspects of meetings .
. There 's other work going on in meeting recording .
I 'm it 's pretty usual for meetings that people come late ,
which , my number 's up there when your meeting is over .
, what would be really great is you bring it in If if we could , , in the meeting , say , , " Here 's the package ,

So that it 's better just as a pro post - process to edit out every time you bash Microsoft .
Consider , , the Post Office in Chicago , a building so large that it has its own zip code .
but what you don't wanna do is onl build a system that always asks every time ,
But if it 's the post office , you will tell them how to get there .
And it 's available Matlab code .

And I 'll give I 'll read the digit strings first , so can see how that goes .
So , if you say things and you don't want them to be released to the general public , which , these will be available at some point to anyone who wants them , , you 'll be given an opportunity by email , , to bleep out any portions you don't like .
, so we will go through and , in the speaker ID tags there 'll be , , M - one O seven , M - one O eight .
So . That 's So , Nancy , we 'll have an At some point we 'll have another discussion on exactly wha t , how that 's gonna go .
So , when we get to that we 'll have some people doing it that they 're doing .
So , we that 's part of what we 'll have to figure out .
And if you 're going off to queries to the ontology , , you 'll have to deal with its interface .
And the question is , d you c you 'll have to l We 'll have to l
So we 'll be like , hand , , doing all the probabilities .
So , you two , who 'll be working on this , li are you gl will you be doing , are you supposed to just do it by thinking about the situation ?

. So the first thing you 'd wanna do is just say which transcript you 're on .
but , the thing to notice is that we will give you an opportunity to edit a all the transcripts .
, what we 're gonna we 'll anonymize it in the transcript .
So , then in terms of people worrying about , , excising things from the transcript , it 's unlikely .
And and then also , , a small amount of assistance from IBM .
So as you move through it that 's - they just track it on the for themselves
And probably one in which it 's easy to have , , what amounts to transcript files .

So this " Tango " means , literally translated , " to touch " .
So But sometimes the Tango mode is really relevant in the in the sense that , , if you want to ,
But we 'd have to infer a Source - Path - Goal to some degree for touching the side , right ?
OK , so now I understand the referent of Tango mode .
Like , Tango 's really close .
in the sense that over the next month there 's a there 's a deliverable .
S so , it 's opportu in that sense it 's opportunistic .

but it 's n {nonvocalsound} , but I 'm not gonna be on
So , all of these things will result in the same XML M - three - L structure .
, this th the dialogue history is , producing XML documents .
So , , we 're {nonvocalsound} committed to XML as the , , interchange .
So , in terms of interchanging in and out of any module we build , It 'll be XML .
if we can get the core of the thing to work , in a way that we 're comfortable with , then we ca we can get in and out of it with , , XML , , little descriptors .
That 's , , easy also to do with , , XML .
, feature value XML format is probably as good a way as any .
So it 's als , I it 's also worth , , while you 're poking around , poke around for XML packages that , do things you 'd like .

but not with a w a real wizard system .
, we will record the Wi - the Wizard
and we do have , , a student who is a candidate for wizard .
It 's a student of Eve 's .

Our intention is to release this data to the public , , probably through f through a body like the LDC .
And the places where you will lead them for these intentions are sometimes ex in incredibly different .
o th No , actually , intention lattices is what we 're gonna get .
In - in a intention lattice k Hypothesis .
Because i we can not differentiate , at the moment , between , , the intention of wanting to go there or the intention of just know wanting to know where it is .
I , it 's just knowing the intention from the experimental subject .
, intention A , intention B , intention C .
maybe with the intention of buying stamps in there .
Is the intention implicit in the scenario that 's given ?

And so you 're gonna pick up that phone ,
So I would say you guy the first task for you two guys is to , pick a package .
bu w I 'd like that this y , this week , to ha to n to have y guys , , , pick the y , belief - net package
But , maybe it might be interesting if the two of you can agree on who 's gonna be the speaker next Monday , to tell us something about the net you picked ,
So that will be the assignment for next week , is to for slides and whatever net you picked

And sometimes here it 's b it 's a little bit more obvious
M - three , M - three - L itself refers to Multimedia Mark - up Language .
or that are in the program language Java ?
No , th It turns out that there is a , The new end of Java libraries .
The obvious advantage of that is that you can then , relatively easily , get all the other Java packages for GUIs or whatever else you might want to do .
, so , if it has that IO capability and if it 's a Java package , it will definitely be able We can couple .

Again , I 'm not how much I should talk about before everyone 's here .
, should I Do you want me to talk about why we 're doing this and what this project is ?
What the close talk ng talking mikes gives us is some ground truth ,
We can ins instruct the , , wizard in how expressive and talkative he should be .

That whatever it is you 're doing at the moment may also inter influence the interpretation of a phrase .
That 's way beyond their scope , is of interpreting that .
And then you have all sorts of other c situational context factors that would influence w how to interpret , like you said , the scope and things like that .

And then also , , it 's a very , very hard task in terms of speech recognition .
So that 's why the tasks were not differentiated by intentionality ,
and you get a certain amount of tasks that you have to solve .
Maybe So , the next task is to get to a certain place and take a picture for your grandchild .
, yo you 're told So when your task is , I , " Go buy stamps " like that ?
Is what you 're suggesting that it might be too poor , the data , if we limit it to this ping pong one t , task results in a question and then there 's an answer and that 's the end of the task ?
I the reason I was asking about the the de the details of this thing is that , , it 's one thing to collect data for , I , speech recognition or various other tasks that have pretty c clear correct answers ,
, wasn't to what level of detail the task was .
and we know that navigational tasks are gonna be a core domain of the new system ,

And you should be able to see which one which one you 're on by , , watching the little bars change .
And so what we wanted is a room that 's instrumented with both the table top microphones ,
Ultimately once we are all experts in changing that parser , , maybe , there 's just a couple three things we need to do
And what 's the relation to this with Changing the table so that the system works in English ?
where we can not only do the bare necessities , IE , changing the table so it does exactly in English what it does in German , but also that we can have the system where we can say , " OK , this is what it usually does ,

That 's the Powder - Tower .
If you actually want to see the tower , and that 's what actually most people want to do , is just have a good look of it , take a picture for the family , you have to go this way , and go up here .
So , if someone says , " I wanna touch the side of the Powder - Tower " , that would , we need to pop up Tango mode and the and the directions ?
The Powder - Tower is made of red limestone .
they had they used the ammunition They stored the ammunition in that tower .
That 's why they call it the Powder - Tower .

We can start , , basic from human beings ,
And then , a human operator comes on , and exp apologizes that the system has crashed ,
And , as soon as we have one , we can start trying to , , make a first cut at what 's going on .
There 's the m tool kit that , Kevin Murphy has developed ,
So , , Kevin would be a good person to start with .

, this was about , inferring intentions from features in context , and the words ,
And this leads us straight to the context which also should be considered .
Now , they may wanna call that part of context .
So that context was like , , their presumed purpose context ,
as as the utterance context , like , " I 'm now standing at this place at this time " .
or w , anything else that 's in the si It 's either in the in the s the discourse itself or in the context .

The issue is , can we find a way to , , featurize it
so that we get some discrete number of features so that , , when we know the values to all those features , or as many as possible , we can w come up with the best estimate of which of the , in this case three little intentions , are most likely .
So if it turns out that , whatever it is , you want to know whether the person 's , a tourist or not , OK ? that becomes a feature .
So we 're supposed to @ @ about features and whatnot ,
and to come up with some features that are not , empirically based on a real experiment or on on reality

. So the first step on that , in any of these , is to collect some data .
But , , since we are designing a an , compared to this , even bigger data collection effort , , we will definitely take care to put it in there ,
If it turns out that we need data of a certain sort , then the data collection branch can be , , asked to do that .
I if this was collected what situation this data was collected in .
I I The situation of collecting th the data
But It was never th the goal of that data collection to serve for sat for such a purpose .
How exactly does the data collection work ?
So . , we have to have this discussion of th the experiment , and the data collection , and all that sorta
And , Jane , but also , , Liz have offered to help us do this , , data collection and design and .

This is a crucial factor , " what type of object is it ? "
It 's a granularity factor ,
The real issue is , do what are the factors involved in determining this ?
So , to Finding out what , , situational con what the contextual factors of the situation really are , is an interesting s interesting thing .
The third one is to get information on the history of an object .
And , for an object that 's big , , getting to the nearest part of it , could be quite different than either of those .

If you don't have the intention of entering your building , but that something is really close to it , and you just want to approach it , or get to that building .
but the idea is to take as a first goal , see if we could actually build a belief - net that would make this three way distinction , in a plausible way ,
Now those It seems to me those are cl you c you have no trouble with those being distinct .
I have no idea whether that 's the best choice
Rather than taking him always to the geometric center of a building ,

We m We may wind up with ver We we may need versions of all this garbage .
We could pursue , , if we thought it 's it 's worth it but , , we will agree on that , , to come up with a with a very , very first crude prototype ,
So it 's it 's way too crude to d capture those differences in intentions .
So , th they 're gonna give us some cr or We can assume that y you get this crude information .
But it doesn't exclude anybody from phrasing it differently , even if they still
So if we w if we think it 's worth it one of these days , not with this first prototype but maybe with a second , and we have the possibility of taking input that 's generated elsewhere and learn from that , that 'd be .
So this is Whi - while you were doing this , I received two lovely emails .
The the full NT and the full Linux version are there .
and I started unta pack the Linux one ,

with the town hall and maybe saying it 's a WH focus on the town hall .
Like the fact Like , I could imagine if someone came up to me and asked , " Where 's the city hall ? " , I might say , g ar " Are you trying to get there ? "
of , like Here you could imagine them being walking around the city . as like one situation .

, especially for people who aren't interested in the acoustic parts of this corpus .
And you can tell that we deliberately cut out this part .
and then we get more whatever , part of speech and more construction - type - like out of it .
Part two is , you 're told that this huge new , wonderful computer system exists , that can y tell you everything you want to know ,
So , anyway , she 's looking for some more part time work w while she 's waiting actually for graduate school .
Nancy , you missed that part .

So , actually , if you guys wanna go ahead and read digits now , as long as you 've signed the consent form , that 's alright .
Are we supposed to read digits at the same time ?
but cognitively that would be really difficult . To try to read them while everyone else is .
So , when you 're reading the digit strings , the first thing to do is just say which transcript you 're on .
There 's two large number strings on the digits ?
, why don't I go ahead and read digit strings
. , and the digit strings , this is just a more constrained task .
. So because the general environment is so challenging , we decided to do at least one set of digit strings
And it 's exactly the same digit strings as in TI - digits ,
which is a common connected digits corpus .
And , read the digit strings and fill out the forms .
You need to sign some and read some digits .
You have to al also have to read some digits .

So that 's why we 're recording in parallel with the close talking and the far field at the same time .
And then , all these channels are recorded simultaneously and framed synchronously
and start recording subjects probably within a month .
And one of the reasons why we 're recording the meeting for these guys is cuz we want their help when we d we start doing , recording of subjects .

. So this is The project is called Meeting Recorder
and there are lots of different aspects of the project .
or they don't wanna know it 's five hundred yards away from you , or that it 's to the your north .
all of these things have been built with much bigger projects than this in mind .
, Michael has a project where , recognizing discourse acts
, you can't you can't run your project based on the speculation that the data will come ,
n None of this is i n Neither of these projects has got a real tight time - line ,

That 's not getting at the scientific problem ,
So our job is to figure out how to solve these problems .
the The problem that I was tr gonna try to focus on today was , let 's suppose by magic you could collect dialogues in which , one way or the other , you were able to , , figure out both the intention ,
But fo for the current problem , it would just be , " OK , if you can be that it 's a tourist , versus a businessman , versus a native , " , , that would give you a lot of discriminatory power
and , importantly , what intermediate nodes we think we need .
And , then as soon as we have it , we should start trying to populate it for this problem .
So this was actually an actual problem that we encountered ,

but you want it about two thumb widths away from your mouth ,
Let 's go back to th Let 's go back to the the slide of data .
Like , the presence of a word or the presence of a certain , stem , or certain construction or whatever .
And the ontology that , the student is constructing for me back in EML is in OIL and that 's also in XML .
Just a back door that we should devote m

the street network of our geographic information system .
What we do know , is that the parser we use in the SmartKom system will never differentiate between any of these .
I 'm just trying to figure out what the SmartKom system would output ,
w And , the computer you are you are being told the computer system knows exactly where you are , via GPS .
, I was just trying to figure out how ambitious the system is .
, what are you ste what are you supposed to be telling the system ?
Doesn't does SmartKom system have such packages ?
. So in terms of the , the what the SmartKom gives us for M - three - L packages , it could be that they 're fine , or it could be eeh .
because car navigation systems don't really care .

. NIST has started an effort which will include video .
We 're not including video , .
It 's just a dark alley .
except that we may want to push that effort to get information we need .
that would be an an enormous technical effort ,

So , , I 've looked , , through twenty some
and , that I 've completely forgot that when we talked .
Anyway . So , i , d naively speaking , you 've you 've got a for this little task , a belief - net ,
, we ought to d a As we have all along , d We we 've been distu distinguishing between situational context ,
let 's say XML , that says , l , " These are the various scenarios we 've experienced . "

OK , so it 's just like , " Let 's figure out what they would say under the circumstances " .
and then in the longer run , you would figure out how you could derive them . From previous discourse or w any anything else you knew .
and , , if they are in MATE , then we get X M L documents with discourse annotations , t
, t from the discourse act down to the phonetic level .
, you can f figure out whether you wanna make it a web site
And then Hopefully that hoping that my urgent message will now come through to Ralph and Tilman that it will send some more documentation along ,

It would always use the closest point to the object ,
So the entrance could be miles away from the closest point .
but with intention , , as you point out , there 's a lot of di other factors
, but but the This point is really very , very valid that ultimately we hope that both will merge into a harmonious and , , wonderful , , state

. So my particular interest is in the PDA of the future .
Yes , we do believe the PDA of the future will be made of wood .
These are not gonna get big in the foreseeable future .
But that 's , , not a big deal .

Then the actual phrases may give us some idea of what the person wants .
that the person wants to , to View it , to Enter it , or to Tango with it .
When the human operator comes on , , that person does not know .
And it and it may serve as a platform for a person , maybe me , or whoever , who is interested in doing some linguistic analysis .
So unless you 're a mail person you really don't wanna go there .
cuz y you probably can't drop the mail there anyway .

, another thing you want is some information abou , about the time of day .
But the time of day matters a lot .
and then t coupled with time of day , , this should
If if , if we don't get any information for these guys f for several weeks then we aren't gonna sit around , , wasting time , trying to do the problem or what they

And that 's so that you minimize breath sounds ,
so that when you 're breathing , you don't breathe into the mike .
Y y you won't tell them how to get there , ft , take that bus to the airport and blah - blah .
So , just off a textbook , , tourist guide , to familiarize , , yourself with that odd - sounding German street names , like Fischergasse and .
an and there 're plenty of people around , students in the department who , , live and breathe Bayes - nets .
whatever , street number blah - blah ,
Because the s postal address is maybe a mailbox somewhere .

So just make that th your wireless mike is on , if you 're wearing a wireless .
So , , just also a note on wearing the microphones .
OK , so when the l last person comes in , just have them wear a wireless .

So , in the display you can , you said that you cou you might have a display that shows , like , the
a Additionally , y you have a a a map type display .
is show the state and show the system and show that .
tell the person , as I s showed you on this map ,
So not only can you show that something sensible but ultimately , if you produce a system like this , it takes the person where it wants to go .

and then the tourists would be faced , , in front of a wall ,
I gave an example where the point where you end up if you want to look at it is completely different from where if you want to enter it .
And , Robert 's point is that the current front - end doesn't give you any way to
It isn't like , if you just took what the front - end gives you , and used some clever inference algorithm on it , you would be able to figure out which of these is going on .
and then compose whatever inferences o we make out of these really conceptual primitives .
We are required at the end to give them in their format ,

And then you read each line with a small pause between the lines .
And the pause is just so the person transcribing it can tell where one line ends and the other begins .
and probably the ea easiest way to do that is some on - line way .
n , produce either , a red line that goes to the Vista point
or a red line that goes to the Tango point
or red line that goes to the door ,

If that goes , then we can start worrying about how we would extract them .
so that we get a clearer notion of what input we need for that ,
And then we can start worrying about where to get this input ,
, what one hopes is that when we understand how the analyzer works , we can both worry about converting it to English and worry about how it could ex extract the parameters we need for the belief - net .

So , everyone needs to fill out , only once , the speaker form and the consent form .
, you should read the consent form ,
On the speaker form just fill out as much of the information as you can .
so that you can also do things like , , beam - forming on all the microphones
So , the most important form is the consent form ,
still outcome w the outcome will be some form of structure ,

which is going to have as output , the conditional pr probability of one of three things ,
And if to actually do that , build it , , run it y run it on the data where you hand - transcribe the parameters .
Though sin f in the short run , you 'd set them ,
and you have a algorithms to go through and run around trying to set the probabilities for you .
What I What came to my mind i is was the notion of an idea that if there are l nets that can actually lear try to set their own , , probability factors based on on input
Now , Then it will be my job to get this whole thing running both on Swede and on this machine .

and these are very high quality pressure zone mikes ,
So , for people who are more interested in language , we didn't want to penalize them by having only the far field mikes available .
. And so , , on the far field mikes we can expect very low recognition results .
So we wanted the near field mikes to at least isolate the difference between the two .
And I 'm going to leave the mike here

And there you have a vre really view It exploded , the during the Thirty
years - war . Really , interesting sight .
I had to until one o ' clock this afternoon before I was able to unpack it .
If you go d If you wanna drive to the SAP in Waldorf ,
And that 's why , when it was hit by , a cannon ball , it exploded .

and do some implementation work , and do some research , and some modeling .
And and you see , , either th the three - D model , or , a QuickTime animation of standing u in a square in Heidelberg .
, first thing is you have to read a text about Heidelberg .
you walking through Heidelberg , and u ultimately arriving there .
and then we wanna s look at some filthy pictures of Heidelberg .

