It 's badly designed .
It 's very badly designed so it 's
It 's very badly designed ?
The the difficulty for this project is the intellectual capital to design the cabinet .

so it has a , , useful Tcl - TK user interface
It 's really the i the interface is wonderful
See a lot of people who actually build with human computer interfaces understand that delay ,
Boy , it 's such a interface .
Yo - you n , there 's al also the user interface that 's missing .
It 's just user interface .
It 's just there 's no user interface for specifying multiple any more than two .
then the other question is do we wanna try to do a user interface that 's available out here ?

I do wish there were big booms coming down from the ceiling .
So that 's where you came up with the f the ten X number ?
Actually that 's the one people usually use , ten X .
if we can go from ten X to five X we 're doing a big
and it takes about ten times real time .
, for ten thousand dollars .
It 's it 's on the order of eight to ten .

No , but the fact that she 's she 's did it before just might give a lower bound .
so , it 's gonna be an upper bound in that case .
There were several different companies that and the range was very tight for technical documents .

She 's she 's done about half a meeting .
I should rewrite the mix tool to put half the people in one channel and half in the other .
, the box , there 's a half inch lip here .
so it hangs down a half an inch .
But there are actually that , there 's an extra there 's a mix out on the radio receiver ?

This is abou we 're we 're mainly being taped but we 're gonna talk about , , transcription for the m future meeting meetings .
So that 's what you 're d He 's got it on his temples so it cuts off his circulation .
Which means we need to move this thing , and sorta decide how we 're actually going to do things .
, , eventually we 're probably gonna wanna distribute this thing
and we should decide how we 're gonna how we 're gonna handle some of these factors .
, so we 're we 're collecting a corpus
So , I can actually arrange for it to arrive in short order if we 're
, that , they 're really respected in the linguistics d side too and the discourse area ,
So we 're we 're at this point only looking for word level .
But , , that 's what we 're talking about is getting some slaves who need money
and , , be in the absence of more specific instructions , we 're trying to figure out what the most convenient thing to do is .
If we 're just doing silence detection
and admittedly they might have been looking for more detail than what we 're looking for here
And so we 're w we decided early on that we were not gonna do that .
That 's not what they 're d quoting for , right ?
And and they 're not gonna provide they 're not gonna provide stress ,
they 're not gonna re provide repairs ,
an and be and say , would you like fries with that when you 're thinking about your pay scale .
, when no one i when we 're not actually in the meeting , and we 're all separated , and doing things .
You 're talking about writing HTML , right ?
and even though there 's eight cables they 're not really very big around
And they 're ac they 're actually ext extruded from plastic .
An - and there 's only there 's only four slots that are , in the first version or the version we 're planning to build .
but I 'm not if my laptop is compatible with the wave LAN thing they 're using .
And they 're in order because they 're sorted lexically by the file names , which are have the numbers in digits .
And then within MPJ they 're sorted by what he actually said .

And the format 's really transparent .
And their save format can handle any .
which means with some w provisions for , , w , colloquial forms .
But you 're saying that by the time you call it back in to from their saved format it opens up a window with five speakers ?
the the whole saved form the saved format and the internal format , all that , handles multiple speakers .
, it 's it 's internal until

, , I 'm just that digit - y g sorta guy .
So I have a bunch of scripts with X Waves , and some Perl scripts , and other things that make it really easy to extract out and align where the digits are .
And if U d UW 's going to do the same thing it 's worth while for them to do these digits tasks as .
Carbon monoxide poisoning ?
So it 's that 's a beside - the - point .
S I 'm not if it 's that 's much
The point we where do we get the the oracle boundaries from ?
That 's a major that 's like , one of the two things that
and , I you 've mentioned in your progress report , or status report , that you had written a script to convert it into
It 's Perl script .
So , , , I mentioned the looping option .
but this was unusual circum circumstance .
so you couldn't get any clues from volume that , , he was really far away from this conversation .
We could have like business - to - business E - commerce as !
It 's just as easy to use to edit the raw HTML as anything else .
I 'm I 'm r a I 'm going up and then I 'm going down .
It 's gonna be hooked up to all sorts of junk .
it 's a choice if we get a choice , let 's keep talking .
I should have mentioned that s , to pause between lines but
say your mother 's maiden name .

But other people are interested in stress marking .
And so Jane is doing primary stress , , stress marks as .
And then there 's the issue of it 's easier to hear it th right the first time if you 've marked it at a boundary instead of somewhere in the middle ,
First of all the time marking you 'd get you could get by a tool .
cuz it does take time to put those markings in .
, we can't tell them , , " for this meeting we really wanna mark stress
, there 's an overlapping mark .
and I marked that , I marked it with ellipsis

but I could hear you really on the on the transcription on the , , tape .
, I 've looked a little bit into commercial transcription services
The other thing too is that their jus their transcription format is really and simple in the discourse domain .
Actually , that 's another thing I was thinking about is that maybe Jane should talk to Liz , to see if there are any transcription issues related to discourse that she needs to get marked .
So they were doing phone and syllable transcription , as as , , word transcription .
that 's how we could pay for the transcription .
But the other thing is that there 's a there 's a colon for transcripts .

I was wondering also , Get ready . whether the lights made any noise .
I 'm afraid I haven't made any progress in that front yet .
that 's the ball park .
but if that 's not feasible , I will do it with you as an advisor .
But it does feel it does feel like it 's really in there .
It 's like a it 's a sleeping policeman .
, it 's like a speed bum An
That 's the s that 's British for speed bump ,
So I 'm ready to build it .
you it just plug plugs in a PC card ,
Hey , what are those green lights doing ?

it 's - it 's very powerful .
plus supply power to the microphones
the there 's no clever way to let the up stream guys know that you 're really not being powered .
I was wrestling with th with literally the w number of connectors in the cable and the , , powering system .
And I was gonna do this very clever phantom power

So all so what you have to do is just identify a segment of speech in time , and then write down what was said within it ,
There 's some interesting human factors problems like , , what span of time is it useful to segment the thing into in order to , transcribe it the most quickly .
So though it 's a good proposal to be used on a new a new batch of text that I haven't yet done yet in the same meeting . Could use it on the next segment of the text .
You wanna know given Given a perfect human segmentation , , you wanna know how
, the question is , is it worth giving you the segmentation ?
That would at least tell us whether it 's worth spending a week or two trying to get a tool , that will compute the segmentations .
if you have two speakers overlapping in a s in a single segment , you see them one displayed one above each other .
So you have when you play it back , , it 's it is useful to have , , a break mark to se segment it .
does the conversation come out from the or the person who 's speaking for the long time as one segment and then there 's this little tiny segment of this other speaker
then I indicated it as a segment which contained @ @ this utterance plus an overlap .
, , that 's that 's because you didn't have the segmentation help and all the other

cuz we 've already have like , forms filled out with the numbers on them .
Cuz it 's gonna hang down , make noise .
cuz they 're distributing it through the LDC .
so , I 've been playing with , , different ways of mar cuz I 'm thinking , , , if you could get optimal instructions you could cut back on the number of hours it would take .
Cuz it 's easier .
cuz the LDC has been advising them on this process ,
cuz we 're always gonna wanna go through this preprocessing
And that works nicely cuz this so quick to enter .
cuz it 's the speakers the same .
Cuz cuz what I have is a soft link to my transcription that I have on my account
Cuz you 're gonna have to wor do the work sooner or later .
And that 's about cuz you wouldn't even need the mixer if you didn't have the
cuz if the dynamic range is low it encodes it with fewer bits .
Cuz we have these writt written down , right ?

I handed it off to her about a month ago .
And that 's happened in the past .
It 's something that wh when you move your hand further , the sound goes faster past it ,
I 'm not how important that distinction is .
, let 's move on to electronics .
, the as we found out with the thing that , , Jeff bought a long time ago to hold our stereo system the you buy is total crap .
And it 's total crap .
It 's total crap .

Want to join the meeting , Dave ?
So , do our meetings in the dark with no air conditioning in the future .
It would , it would real really mean that we should do short meetings when you turn off the turn off the air conditioning ,
because it would to be able to take that and adapt it to a meeting setting .
So what we wanted to do was have Jane do one meeting 's worth ,
, there 's gonna there 's gonna be in the meeting , like the reading group meeting that we had the other day , that 's it 's gonna be a bit of a problem
A lot of companies I 've worked for y the , the person leading the meeting , the executive or whatever , would go around the room and mentally calculate h how many dollars per hour this meeting was costing ,
And we 're talking about do doing how many hours worth of meetings ?
What s so what are you so you 've done some portion of the first meeting .
But even during the meeting there 's a lot of overlap

There was a glitch last time we ran .
Visit my friends and spend some time
But they also mentioned that they have it time aligned .
It this is like five times real time or ten times real time
which is we go ahead as though there will be money at the time that we need the money .
s but again the timing is for fr should be for free .
We haven't decided which time we care about ,
Although I was I , the alternative , which I was experimenting with before I ran out of time , recently was , that , , ev if it were like an arbitrary segment of time i t pre - marked
so then you listen to it a second time and move it over to here .
, I the question is how much time will it really save us versus the time to write all the tools to do it .
It 's very , I looked at the file format and it 's just it has a t a time a time indication and then something or other , and then an end time or other .
And if the lower bound is nine X then w it 's a waste of time .
, it wasn't a pure task the first time ,
, mostly because they were doing much lower level time .
and maybe I shouldn't spend too much time getting exactly when the person said " no " , or , , , i " immediate " .
The rest of the time I didn't bother with who was talking to who
But that 's but there 's only one there 's only one time boundary for both speakers ,
But the only time that becomes ambiguous is if you have two speakers .
The time it becomes ambiguous if you have more than one speaker and that and they swap .
Constant volume all the time .
I 'm just giving you a hard time .

And I would like that just to get a disjoint speaker set and a disjoint room .
, one of the things Morgan and I were talking about is we 're gonna get to know this room really ,
So maybe we should find a day when they 're gonna be here and Morgan 's gonna be here ,
and then say , , Morgan has consistently resisted telling me how much money we have .
There 's a reason why he 's resisted .
, i b but , , Morgan 's in a bind over this
Are we gonna run out of disk space ?
d Doesn't it beep in the other room when you 're out of disk space ?
That 's how many chairs are in the room .
I I 'm not a big fan of doing things to the room that make the room less attractive for other people ,
, like if we talked softer the disk lasts longer .

D does this tool you 're using is strictly
We 're gonna need we 're gonna need ten to a hundred hours to train the tools , and validate the tools the do the d to do all this anyway .
And it 's not really strictly comparable .
And the thing to keep in mind too about this tool , guys is that , you can do the computation for what we 're gonna do in the future
but if UW 's talking about doing two , or three , or five times as much and they can use the same tool , then there 's a real multiplier there .
Using wh using stone age
using stone age tools .
Using using stone age tools .
, so anyway , are we interested then in writing tools to try to generate any of this automatically ?
It 's it 's against the law to use a tool .

So we were planning to do like thirty or forty hours worth of meetings .
They wanna do an additional hundred or so hours .
, forty minutes to an hour ,
but the chances are if we 're talking about collecting ten or a hundred hours , which is going to take a hundred or a thousand hours to transcribe
So forty or fifty hours .
So for other services , , they were about thirty dollars an hour .
For thirty dollars an hour for of their work .
So so if it 's ten times it 's three hundred dollars an hour .
So that 's three that 's three hours .
And so what I 'm saying is that if we hire an external service we can expect three hundred dollars an hour .
Twenty - eight to thirty - two dollars an hour .
So what they had is , if it 's an easy task it costs twenty - four dollars an hour
And what they said is for the hardest tasks , bad acoustics , meeting settings , it 's thirty - two dollars an hour
, it 's a lot like , " he 's worth fifty an hour ,
And so he so here we 're thinking , " let 's see , if the meeting goes another hour it 's going to be another thousand dollars . "
So thirty or forty thousand dollars .
Three hundred dollars an hour .
So it 's thirty dollars an hour , essentially , right ?

You can clip click on individual utterances and it 'll take you immediately to that part of the speech signal , and play it for you .
it 's like there 's some purpose for an utterance .
Get get paid for click - throughs ?

if it 's neck mounted you don't get very good performance .
It 's not neck mounted .
It 's supposed to be h head mounted .
So you take a bathroom break in the middle and keep your head mount
I have a auto - gain - mixer tool that mixes all the head mounted microphones into one signal
So if someone said " - " in the middle of a of someone 's , , intonational contour , I indicated it as , like what you just did .
cuz the he the , , cheap head mounteds all require low voltage .

I was actually thinking I wouldn't mind spending the summer up there .
And the question is what 's the difference
I was just gonna ask , , so wanted to c finish off the question I had about backchannels ,
or does it does the fact that there 's a backchannel split the it in two .
Then , so question mark colon is fine for that .
The question is what is what 's he looked at .
so , I g I it 's just a question , is that something you wanna spend your time on ?
right , so it 's just a question of getting a laptop and a wireless modem .
The question is , is there an Apple driver ?
But the real question I have is that , why bother with these ?
There were no there were no direct driver errors , by the look of it , which is good .

And so the things we that we know that I know I want are the text , the start and end , and the speaker .
, and then things like repairs , and false starts , and , filled pauses , and all that other , we have to decide how much of that we wanna do .
And so , , that 's because you separate when you do an extract , you get a little silence on either end .
I should have it finished by the end of the day .
Another option is it 'll pause when it reaches the end of the boundary .
there 's a lot of overlapping at the beginning and end .
I did notice that there were some segments that had pauses on the beginning and end .
So you just you need to have the boundary at the start and the end .
, at the end of this unit you 'd happened later .
It 's something you wanted to indicate that it that I this was the end of the phrase ,
So there 'd be a subset of them used for j just use the ones at this end for this many .
And there 's a there 's a plug on the end of each of these , , ei eight cables .
You really need an incentive at the end if you 're gonna do digits again .
It 's harder at the end than at the beginning .

And then also if it 's a r if it 's a repair where they 're like what did , then it 's to have a sense of the continuity of the utterance ,
OK , my focus was to try and maintain conten con content continuity and , , to keep it within what he was saying .
but you wanna show that it 's continued at a later point .
So I have I have a convention of putting like a dash arrow just to indicate that this person 's utterance continues .
And then when it , catches back up again then there 's an arrow dash ,
and then you have the opposite direction to indicate continuation of ones own utterance versus ,
sometimes we had the situation which is , which you which you get in conversations , of someone continuing someone else 's utterance ,
and in that case I did a tilde arrow versus a arrow tilde , to indicate that it was continuation
And then tilde arrow if it was a different if a different speaker , , con continuation .
But just , , the arrows showing continuation of a thought .
Like , if you If you only have one person , if you only have one thought that 's continuing across a particular time boundary , you just need one arrow at each end ,

And , , it 's a little bit deceptive if you include the repai the pre - repair part
that 's part of the thing we 're talking about .
We didn't finish the part of work already completed on this ,
So , I when I i the it 's quickest for me in terms of the transcription part to say something like , , if Adam spoke to , to just say , " A colon " ,
And then at the same time the top s part of the screen is the actual verbatim thing .
And instead just rendered " within this time slot , there were two people speaking during part of it
and part of it was funny , reason was because it was a mixed signal
Now that 's refinement that , , maybe it could be handled by part of the part of the script more
I also wanted to ask you if you have a time estimate on the part that you transcribed .
But once we once we 've done the intellectual part of these , , we can just knock them out , right ?

They 're they have some connection to the LDC
, isn't that an ethernet connection or is that a phone ?
, that 's an ethernet connection .
it just came through a serial p or an Ethernet port .
There 's gonna be actually a plug at the front that 'll connect to people 's laptops so you can walk in and plug it in .
And it 's gonna be con connected to the machine at the back .

, of general spoken English .
Cuz then , , you get like if you get a span of five words , that 's easy .
cuz then the word 's bisected or whatever
But we don't care about the timing of the words .
We don't care about the timing of the words , just of the utterances .
, mis Mister TCL ?
And forgetting all the words because you 've been thr
I could generate the segmentation and you could do the words , and time yourself on it .
Talk slowly but with few words .
So if a person said , " cuz " instead of " because " then I put a an apostrophe at the beginning of the word and then in double ang angle brackets what the full lexical item would be .
, if it if there was a word like " right " , , then I wou I would indicate that it happened within the same tem time frame
whenever we use these speech words we should always do the thing like you 're talking about , accent ,
, we 're gonna generate this transcript with five tracks in it , but with no words .
Someone 's gonna have to go in and type in the words .
in terms of like the continuity of thought for transcriptions , it 's i it isn't just words coming out ,
I want to introduce the word " snot - head " into the conversation at this point .
See he said the word TCL and that 's
Now , shorter words wouldn't would induce more dynamics ,

and Jane has been working on doing transcription .
Actually , the a th air the air conditioning 's still working ,
, it 's silly to do unless we 're gonna have someone to work on it ,
, it 's it 's maybe like a week 's work to get to do something like this .
it might save ninety percent of the work though .
, it just means you have to stop working for Dave .
I don't wanna stop working for Dave .
until you get crazy and decide to stop cycling through that unit .
Which is to say , , the neighborhood of a week to get the circuit board done .

, cuz primarily the markings are at speaker change .
if that could handle speaker identification that 's a big deal .
but it seems like we it doesn't it seems like it 's not really not that hard to have an automatic tool to generate the phrase marks , and the speaker , and speaker identity without putting in the words .
and E colon instead of entering the interface for speaker identification and clicking on the thing , , indicating the speaker ID .
So , and then he has a script that will convert it into the thing that , , would indicate speaker ID .
None of them specifically said that they would do speaker ID , or speaker change mark .
because we 're gonna want them to do speaker marking .
So , , one of them is the idea of how to indicate speaker change ,
And so if you 're using their interface to specify overlapping speakers you can only do two .
, did you ask them to change the interface for more speakers ?
We should probably mark areas that have no speakers as no speaker .
But their but their format , if you wanted to in indicate the speakers right there instead of doing it through this indirect route , then i they a c window comes up and it only allows you to enter two speakers .
So I wouldn't wanna do it through the interface anyway adding which worry who the speaker was .
And then you could track whether it was the same speaker or not by knowing
and if it 's picked up by a different speaker , it 's picked up by a different speaker .
And so they 're actually this is like all the all utterances that were generated by speaker MPJ .

I knew that they had some funding problems in completing it
And this requires humans just like the STP .
, , that 's part of the problem is , is that what we really need is somebody else to come along .
, but there 's an extra problem which is that I didn't really keep accurate
, I if we 'd be able to do any thing f to help STP type problems .
it seems like the , , tran the transcription problem would be very different if we had these automatic speaker detection turn placing things .
actually it sounds like there might be a problem putting it into the software if the software only handles two parallel channels .
So your script solves Doesn't it solve all our problems ,
Certainly it solves a lot of the problems with leaving a monitor out here all the time .
But , that 's another that 's another possibility that , , solves
But you there 's a problem a structural problem with this though .

, I m I would prefer that people wore it on their head
, not necessarily have the U - dub people down .
people will have to look at it more than once to make that it 's been done correctly ,
There is also the o other possibility which is if you can provide not money but instructional experience or some other perks , you can you could get people to , to do it in exchange .
f and there were other people that weren't wearing microphones .
Th - th the th there may be just multiplier for five people costs twice as much and for ten people co Something like that .
To pr protect his people .
It 's what audio people actually use .
, would this be to document it also for outside people or mainly for in house use ?
I if people realize what they 're looking at .
So that if t if you have two people sitting next to each other they can actually go into the same box .
that 's the way people sit .
th there will be a certain amount of looking at cables has to be done if people , , rewire things .
doesn't don't the important people have those little blue VAIOs that
and , so a monitor sitting here all the time people are gonna walk up to it and go , " how come I can't get , , Pong on this " or , whatev
So people sitting here are going " testing , one , two , three " !

It 'll be a lot easier if we have a if we have them permanently in place like that .
in which case w we 'll have to decide what we 've actually got so that we can give them a copy .
, if it 's parenthetical , which I know that Liz has worked on , then y you 'll have different prosodic aspects .
and so when you by the time you click it 'll be right on because it 'll go back in time to put the
And so you 'll get you 'll get down to one point two X by the time you get done .
Cuz they a usually at the end of the show they 'll tell what the name of the company is , the captioning company that 's doing it .
Sev - several of them say that they 'll do meetings , and conferences , and s and so on .
I 'll - I 'll show you the cro
i it 'll it 'll work
It 'll work the first time .
I 'll I 'll remember to bring M and M 's next time .

Did you notice the fan difference ?
This fan 's wired backwards .
So it could be that it 's not actually wired backwards
that 's just an auxiliary fan .
But but is there anyway to wire a speech recognizer up to it
or a , you could wire a mouse or trackball to do something like that .
And then the , would wire the all of the cables in a in a bundle come through here and o collect these cables at the same time .
, that that people put with the little you slip the wires into that 's shaped like that cross section .
And actually , at the m my plan is to only bring eight wires out of this box .
And , , it 's function is to s to , , essentially a wire converter to go from these little blue wires to these black wires ,
, it 's useless for this function .
So Jim is gonna be doing wiring and you 're gonna give some thought to cabinets ?
Cut the red wire ,

That 's the microphone number .
That 's the microphone number .
, this is Jane , on mike number five .
OK , this is Eric on microphone number three ,
, but Eric , , you didn't think that was a reasonable hypothesis , right ?
, that 's why we s bought the expensive microphones .
Is there a limit to the number of speakers ?
because I figured there 's a limited number ,
Why don't you just ask people to repeat numbers they already know ?
, social security numbers .
Social security numbers .
Bank account numbers .
Credit card numbers ,
, so you just say your credit card numbers ,

And it 's it 's only our time , where " our " includes Dan , Dan and you guys .
, cuz I was I was listening to Dan was agreeing a lot to things that you were saying as you were talking .
what it what happens is if you 're a transcriber listening to it sounds like Dan is just being a total impolite .
But but if you knew that I wasn't actually in the room , and that Dan wasn't talking to me , it became OK .
So so if we hired a who if we hired a whole bunch of Dan 's
If we hire an infinite number of Dan 's
We could do an HT access which would accommodate those things .
Dan - Dan and I have gone around on this , and we were thinking about something that opened up in the top to allow access to the mixer .
But there 's these things sticking out of the mixer which are a pain ,
if you stuck the mixer up here and the top opened , it 'd be it 'd be fine .
Slipped almost slipped it by Dan .

, , for that particular issue ther there are known sources where people go to find these things like the LDC .
, in addition to this issue about the UW there was announced today , , via the LDC , , a corpus from I believe Santa Barbara .
Corpus of Spoken American English .
But , it it would also maybe help be helpful for Liz , if she wanted to start working on some discourse issues , , looking at some of this data and then ,
you just that 's said that was a critical issue .
we it what it 's like to manage the manage the process ,
But there 's still the same issue of managing the process , of reviewing and keeping the files straight , and all this , that which is clearly a hassle .
You 're the one who raised the issue .
Wah - hah - hah - hah .
Now the the subtle issue here is that tha I haven't really figured out a solution for this .
, , b that to me that 's a whole nother . That 's a whole nother issue .

I wanna hear about these , we have a g you were s continuing with the transcription conventions for s
s see , I 've been at the same time doing a boot strapping in deciding on the transcription conventions that are , and like , , how much
So I gave him the proposal for the transcription conventions .
So as far as I 'm concerned those transcription conventions are fixed right now .
And so , , using this the convention that Jane and I have discussed , you can have as many overlapping speakers as you want .
and But so in terms of the con the conventions , then , , , , it 's strictly orthographic
but to have a convention marking it as a non - standard or wha I don't mean standard but a a non , ortho orthographic , , whatever .
It 'd be good to have that in the in the conventions , what 's to be used .
If we use the little the conventions that Jane has established , I have a script that will convert from that convention to their saved convention .
I 'd like to be able to pore through , , the types of tr conventions that you 've come up with and like that .

, , the mike isn't close enough to your mouth ,
Unless they added close field later on
and thing to do is just the field of dreams theory ,
, one person would have to assign the boundaries and the and the other person would have to
I who 's the person in charge ?
I hope it 's Jane .
, some of the backchannel Jane had some comments
, Jane had comments like , to who the person was speaking to .
And that 's w that 's where I added comments .
But it would be , I didn't wanna add more contextual comments than were needed
Can we sell banner ads ?

, what I was thinking is it may be useful in transcribing , if it 's far field ,
What we 're using right now is a tool , , from this French group , called " Transcriber "
Take the data that you 've already transcribed
And then go through , and go through and try and re - transcribe it , given that we had perfect boundary detection .
, I looked at Cyber Transcriber
, for Cyber Transcriber they don't quote a price .
No , but , they they won't they will refuse to transcribe this material .
or would I be the voluntary , , coordinator of multiple transcribers for checking ?
Boy , if I wanted to increase my income I could start doing the transcribing again .
So this is this is gonna go on the meeting transcriber bloopers tape , right ?
, it took me half an hour to transcribe a minute ,
It 's it 's only a hard time for the transcriber not for the speech recognizer .

And I 'm getting lots of responses on different ones ,
, now you 've touched the fan control ,
I 've been watching for that corpus .
but , , I 've listened to some of those data
, I 've I 've heard I 've listened to the data .
, sp I 've been I was really pleased to see that .
But we 've got we 've got the most channel data .
, we 've we 've got a lot of data .
, , , they constantly could 've reminding people and going over it .
And they 're they 've been quite responsive .
I 've been exchanging emails on various issues .
And they have they 've actually asked if we are willing to do any development
And then also once you 've put a break in then you have the option of cycling through the unit .
in my view , when i when you 've got it densely overlapping , , I didn't worry about I didn't worry about s specific start times .
which is that , , the that you 've been describing , Jane , I gu one has to , indicate , , i is very interesting ,
, we 've been been lax and lucky .
And given that we 've got a wireless that we 've got a we got the field .
I 've I 've borrowed the IRAM VAIO Sony thingy ,

but , there 's nowhere to put the pad so it 's comfortable .
It 's not so much the actu The logistics of distribution are secondary to preparing the data in a suitable form for distribution .
as it is , it 's a ad - hoc combination of Dan set and I set up ,
So , they want a very large data set .
and I , , I 've been I was actually on the advisory board for when they set the project up .
I 'm glad to see that it got released .
and that 's one of the things that you 're saying , is like you have the option to put in more or less timing data
the Linguistic Data Consortium .
, I 'm talking about putting together all the data in a form that is legible , and pleasant to read , and up to date , and et cetera , et cetera .
therefore we can put data in it that we don't we don't have to worry about releasing " .
And so the two head set jacks would be in the front
Actually , this I got this directly from another training set , from Aurora .

David , can we borrow your labelling machine to improve the quality of the labelling a little bit here ?
Because the machine just isn't very heavily loaded .
so it 's slightly delayed ,
So if we want if we did something like programmed in a delay , which actually is a great idea , , I 'm they would want that incorporated back in .
It 's missing from all of our offices ,
So there are actually six XLR outs on the back of the radio receiver
I have an IRAM machine I 've borrowed and we can use it .
there are there are abs there are a bunch of machines at ICSI that have those cards
The the idea of con convincing them that we should use their network i is fairly straight forward .
The idea of being able to walk into their office and say , " , can I borrow your machine for a while " , is is a non - starter .
So , , either we figure out how to use a machine somebody already in the group already owns , a and the idea is that if it 's it perk , , it 's an advantage not a disadvan or else we literally buy a machine e exactly for that purpose .
But but the idea of having a control panel it 's that 's there in front of you is really .
And and it 's a PCMCIA card , right ?

, we saw , there was this presentation in the one of the speech group meetings about how
so what she 's done so far , is more or less breath g not breath groups , phrases , continuous phrases .
Like I wouldn't say breath groups but prosodic or intonational groups as much as possible .
, we could put we could put a disorganized group gestalt
so that it 's a little more presentable and organized .

Are - are yo are you recording where the table mikes are ?
we should make little marks on the table top .
till the projector gets installed .
There 's a lip in these tables .
and I also brought this along rather than the projector so we can put these on the table , and w push them around .
That that 's the six tables that we 're looking at .
These six tables here , with little boxes , , in the middle here .
this is the table cross section .
, so this notion of putting down the P Z Ms and taking them away would somehow have to be turned into leaving them on the table
Big screw into the table .
And to See , thi this is really the way people sit on this table .
It 's very convenient especially if Dan happens to be sitting at that end of the table to not have to run down here and look in the thing every so often ,

, Lila actually is almost getting r pretty close to even getting ready to put out the purchase order .
And what I 've done is pretty ad - hoc ,
We could program that pretty easily ,
I 'd I 'd be cheating a little bit g with familiarity effect .
I 've already become pretty familiar with the format ,
It 's pretty cute .
So so the at ten X seems to be pretty standard .
so my search was pretty cursory .
but it 's marked pretty clearly .
But I subtracted the four that I did have from the mix and got a pretty good approximation of the @ @ .

Now , just to be , the numbers on the back , this is the channel ?
, d leave the channel blank .
And so that 's why they 're getting away with just two channels ,
Could you get it so that with so it would it would detect volume on a channel and insert a marker ?
, but the oracle boundaries would come from volume on a partic specific channel wouldn't they ?
who knows if they 're gonna be able to m manage multal multiple channel data ?
, they said they wanted to do it but that the code is really very organized around single channels .
, what w what Eric was talking about was channels other than the direct speech ,
The the important issue about the LED is the fact that we 're talking about eight of these total , which would be sixteen channels .
And , , even though we have sixteen channels back at the capture , they 're not all gonna be used for this .
So why do we have sixteen channels instead of like some fewer number ?

because , , the time it takes is you listen to it , and then you press the return key .
But then , , it 's like , , you press the tab key to stop the flow and , , the return key to p to put in a marking of the boundary .
But , , there 's a lag between when you hear it and when you can press the return key
cuz you can use the , the tabbed key to toggle the sound on and off .
, it 'll stop the s speech if you press a tab .
and so you get very good at jostling back and forth , rather than hitting tab , and backspace , and carriage return , and enter , and things like that .
And then to get to the next boundary you just press tab
But really , no , w in the context if he can't hear what he 's saying

And the other thing is that , , University of Washington may want to start recording meetings as ,
They had people come in to a certain degree and they and they have DAT recorders .
And and their recording conditions are really clean .
out of out of Adam 's pocket .
, if i if you were just recording someone 's day , it would be impossible . ,
And , it oc I p especially brought the bottom along to try and generate some frequencies that you may not already have recorded .
let the record show that this is exhibit two B .
so I ended up not recording one of the channels and recording the mix .
, let the record show at at f four thirty - five Adam Janin says

No , and their web their web page didn't answer it either .
but from all the web documentation it looked like , " , this is phase one " ,
And , , so it was only people who have web pages and are doing through that .
Maybe we should s consider also , , starting to build up a web site around all of these things .
now , w the alternative to a web site would be to put it in Doctor speech .
Web site 's .
Web site 's what ?
And we have we have quite a disparate number of web and other sorts of documents on this project spread around .
b but but what are you what are you talking about for web site hacking ?
Which produces also site maps .
Now , I if I were if I were doing more powerful excuse me more complex web sites I might want to .
most of the web sites I do aren't that complex .
There it you 'd all you need 's web access , isn't it ?

but can't imagine that we 're gonna get anything that much better from a commercial one .
And the commercial ones I 'm will be much more expensive .
, that 's why I said originally , that I couldn't imagine sending it out 's gonna be cheaper .
, now would this involve some manner of , monetary compensation
, I would imagine there would be some monetary involved
, no , that I would be interested in that in becoming involved in the project in some aspect like that
I sh I shouldn't be allowed to by m by my own by my according to my own priorities .
, it 's like , it 's that simple .
So so you 'd imagine some in some patch panel on top to figure out what the mapping was between each d of these two and each of those one or what ?
the simplest thing I could imagine , i which is really , really simple is to quite literally that these things plug in .
But if you can imagine what the right form factor is .
I 'd trade them a flat panel display for it .

It 's not s It 's not supposed to cover up your ears .
it 's like " low " is mid - scale .
Tear t Tear your clothing off to stay .
But maybe we should , find some day that Liz , Liz and Andreas seem to be around more often .
A little double - blind - ear thing .
What approximately , what did you find out in terms of price or whatever ?
but there is a standard pay scale
, we talked about things like foot pedals and other analog
but I c all I could I couldn't find it at the local store .
But this is the technology . It 's actually a little bit thinner than this .

but there 's a lot of different styles of speech and what not .
to adapt the speech recognition .
In doing , , some of our first automatic speech recognition models , it may be useful to have that data
I did include a glo , a certain first pass .
, it will require a post pass ,
but the recognition quality is gonna be horrendous .
they do a first - pass speech recognition .
When you when you get the , you get the speech signal you also get down beneath it , an indication of , ,
But , are they are they linguists or are they speech recognition people ?
But , a lot of these issues , that for , from my point of view , where wanna do speech recognition and information retrieval , it doesn't really matter .
There 's a speech compression program that works great on things like this ,

but it but it occurs to me that it may be a lot easier to correct things than it is to do things from scratch , no matter how wonderful the tool is .
, , but sometimes it 's easier to type out something instead of going through and figuring out which is the right
It 's just a matter of a very c clear
The other thing too is that , , if they were linguistics they 'd be , in terms of like the post editing , i tu content wise they might be easier to handle
because it didn't matter if it was " mmm " or " " , , versus " " .
But , is it against the law to actually use a tool to help your job go easier ?
I trust Steve Jobs .

Can you , say your name and talk into your mike one at a time ?
topic of this meeting is I wanna talk a little bit about transcription .
and then , , maybe also talk a little bit about some infrastructure and tools , and so on .
So , w shall we move on and talk a little bit about transcription then ?
Everyone more or less everyone you talk to says about ten times for hard technical transcription .
D did you talk to anybody that does closed captioning for , TV ?
So ch So every everybody ta Talk really fast .
only talk when you 're pointed to .
but we 'd have to talk to Morgan about it .
As long as you d as l as long as you 're not tempted to sit there and f keep fiddling with the volume controls going , " can you talk a bit louder ? "
But if you talk quieter , the dynamic range is lower and it will compress better .
It also helps if you talk in a monotone .

, I 'm think about the close caption that you see running by on live news casts .
I was looking for the actual box I plan to use ,
The box is an inch thick
and then the little LED to indicate that box is live .
you 'd like a way to tell whether your box is live , so the LED wouldn't be on .
So if you 're plugged in it doesn't work and the LED is off that 's that 's a tip off .
Thi - thi this box is a one off deal .
that you plug it in , the LED comes on , and and you 're live .

how do we distribute the audio files ,
, STM files , or XML , .
Thi - this is the process of converting audio to text ?
which is a service that you send an audio file ,
Whereas if we do a service it 's gonna be limited amount .
No , but I 'm saying if this is what professionals who actually do this thing for m for video or for audio where you need to do this ,
And and there would be limits to how much refinement you want in indicating something as non - standard pres pronunciation .
So I was doing it by typ typing into a text file and trying to fit
So that 's a new upper limit ?
would it , arb , arbitrarily amount of

and , having it on wireless is the neatest way neatest way to do it .
I had actually earlier asked if I could borrow one of the cards to do wireless
So again , Washington wants to equip a system .
Our system , we spent ten thousand dollars on equipment not including the PC .
However , seven and a half thousand of that was the wireless mikes .
Washington could have a system that didn't have any wireless but would had what 's based on these
PC and two thousand dollars for the A - to - D .
But anyway you 'd save , on the seven or eight thousand for the for the wireless system .

so I assume the various and assorted P Z Ms are on .
so one option is to get linguistics grad students and undergrads to do it .
So at any rate , Jane was looking into the possibility of getting students ,
But at any rate , so we have a ballpark on how much it would cost if we send it out .
But we can pay a graduate student seven dollars an hour .
The - these are not for engineering graduate students , right ?
these are linguistics grad students .
so that means that even if it takes them thirty times real time it 's cheaper to do graduate students .
Just hypoth hypothetically assuming that we go ahead and ended up using graduate students .

Should I turn off the VU meter Dan ?
The VU meter which tells you what the levels on the various mikes are
and there was one hypothesis that perhaps that the act of recording the VU meter was one of the things that contributed to the errors .
so he was checking the meter levels
I 'm telling you , I 'm just gonna cart one of them away if they stay there much longer .
You mean like see meter readings , from while sitting here .
So we certainly could use that as a constant reminder of what the VU meters are doing .
Huge VU meters .

