That 's a very good that 's a very good , suggestion .
and I know you don't like this , but I 'm offering this as a suggestion , is that is that we then give them a print out .
But the problem with what you 're suggesting is it 's not just inconvenient for them , it 's inconvenient for me .

and in pact this one I 'm talking on is one of the ones that showed up in one of the meetings ,
in the because of the fact that the meetings are tending to become reasonably large now on days when everybody shows up
by not showing up if it 's a meeting that he 's he 's

, for me I would actually want to have some pieces of paper that had the transcription and I would flip through it .
this maybe it sounds paleolithic but thought if you handed them some sheets of paper , that said , , " here 's what was said in this transcription is it OK with you ?
and if it is , here 's this other sheet of paper that you sign that says that it 's OK " .
, I don't think it 's that much harder than , paper .
The problem is if it 's harder for them it 's also harder for me .
So I 'm a little bit worried about , making it harder for them , from the legal standpoint .

I had assumed that we didn't need their signature , that it that an email approval was sufficient .
Cuz you could send it through email you 're thinking .
what I 'm saying is that I can't just email them the password because that 's not secure .
It seems to me that sending them email , saying " if you have an O - OK reply to this email and say OK ,
Al - Also it ther there is this other question , the legal question that Adam 's raised , about whether we need a concrete signature , or email c i suffices or whatever
and I it 's , it 's fine to do the email .
if it 's a follow up to some other agreement where there was a signature it 's often done in email now

, . Andreas brought up the fact that he would kinda like to know , if possible , what we were gonna be talking about
So , it 's still , it 's fifteen minus six .
But anyway there 's there 's , other activities that are going on there and and NIST and UW .
i it 's just their repair shop .
that 's that 's a way that 's
NONVOC for door - slam ,
but I 'm not if that 's necessary , clarifying what it is ,
Cu - Cube root ?
where 's the where 's the release ? "
if I 'm right in that , it seems like you 're setting it up for the most infrequent case , rather than for the most frequent case .
For the most frequent case they just say " it 's OK "
And that was just convenience for my sake , that it 's ,
If we really orient it towards that extreme case , make it really easy , we 're gonna end up encouraging a headache .
If you agree to participate you 'll have the opportunity to have anything ex anything excised , which you would prefer not to have included in the data set .
that 's more open than I realized .
And I don't think there 's anything in the legal aspects that is hurt by our expressing that bias .
, if there are lots of mumbles and parentheses and things like that .
you could do it with PGP or things like that but it 's too complex .
realized something , which is of e th this question about the the possible mismatch of
but , I 'm really just here to fill the project the overall progress .

You find it easier to go through a large
But for something like this , it 's easier to do it on the web .
Now in terms of like editing it by hand , it 's i some people would find that easier to specify the bleep part by having a document they edited .
But it 's easier to drop in the box .
what Morgan 's saying is the easier it is , the more is gonna be bleeped .

And the main track that you 're working with is elev eleven hours ?
There 're some who have more hours that they devote to it than others .
that if it 's if it 's that thing where you 're saying " OK I agree , we want eighty hours of this person at such - and - such amount , and I agree that 's OK , "

I that there 's a chance of really skipping that stage .

I wanna talk a little bit about getting how we 're gonna to get people to edit bleeps , parts of the meeting that they don't want to include .
and And part of part of his motivation with this is that he 's trying to help us out ,
you see that 's part of the cleaning process .
because it 's not part of our st of our ne needed conventions .
the transcription part ? So I the next thing is this bleep editing .
And so that 's a minor part of it ,
There 's another aspect to this which maybe is part of why this is bothering me .
, we have to provi we have promised that we would provide them the transcript and that they can remove parts that they don't like .
you might be right , it may be it was just paranoia on my part , but people just

and get people 's opinions on what they think of them .
. But but I thin that at least the message we can tell other people is that our experience is quite positive with the Sony ,
we have to worry about all these passwords , for different people
and I would rather they were able to edit out other people then just say " don't distribute it " .
it 's also a mixture of people ,
And and , I am just a little worried about making it so easy for people to do ,
it 's now fairly routine in a lot of arrangements that I do with people on contracts and
And I realize we shouldn't emphasize that people , shouldn't borrow trouble .

Y you mean just on each line there 's a one word
and I went through it last night , it 's it 's almost spooky how similar these are , word for word .
but it 's word - by - word the same , in huge patches of the data .
and , , and we should think carefully actually we should review go through how that 's worded ,
it 's a it we just go over carefully how these notes to people are worded .
So want it to be worded in such a way where it gives the strong impre it gives very , nothing hidden , v very strongly the bias that we would really like to use all of these data .
Again let 's , circulate the wording on each of these things and get it right ,
Or or even or even there was a line about how " - mmm Bill Gates duh - duh - duh . "
but it was all the words were all visible , but they didn't end up i some there was a slip in the transcript .

as long as we 're conscious about the batteries .
I heard from UW that they 're they 're very close to getting their , setup purchased .
They 're they 're buying something that you can just buy off the shelf .
and indicating why they 're there to indicate that it 's the , enumerated , or i
Boy , they 're moving right along .
, you 're you 're not necessarily gonna be sitting at the desk all the time ,
See because you 're gon you 're
You 're gonna end up with all these little patchy things , whereas really what we want to do is have the the bias towards letting it go .
We 're playing the lawyer 's game , and we 're playing we 're we 're looking for the extreme case .
We 're We 're trying i We 're trying to make it less of an obvious just l fall off a log , to do this .
because thi th they 're signing here that they 're agreeing to the paragraph which says " you 'll be given an opportunity . "
And they 're s they 're absorbing the responsibility themselves .

And on this side , this one 's picking up things like " neural nets " and the one that 's good on the sp o on th the vocabulary on the colloquial didn't .
, but if someone is having a conversation , and you only bleep out one side of it , that 's not sufficient .
If I say " we were having a conversation , and I consider that conversation private , " and I consider that your side of it is enough for other people to infer , I wanna be able to bleep out your side .
, I 'm just thinking for people that 's not sufficient for , what the only sufficient thing would be for me to walk up to them and hand it to them .
it 's you have it , viewab her hearable on the on the web for those who might wonder about , the non nonverbal side ,

, you 're really trying very hard to make this as convenient as possible for people to do this .
we 're not talking about the energy crisis , people have

What by clean is that they 're spell - checked ,
Have you also been doing spot checks , Jane ?
but to check this for things that they 're worried about having said or if they 're willing to just send an approval of it , at from their memory .
It 's just a check box next to the text , it 's not any fun .
and but it 's that a person could check .
, I we 're assuming that the transcript is a close enough approximation and that my double checking will be so close to perfect that it that nothing will slip by .

We didn't have a front - end meeting today .
, I have to tell you for the for the admin meeting that we have , Lila does that every time before an admin meeting .
Maybe we 'd be able to meet that request of his a little more .
if he 's invited to these meetings ,
and gave one meeting to Liz who wanted to try it for the recognizer
We need to provide the transcripts to every participant of every meeting to give them an opportunity to bleep out sections they don't want .
And then each meeting , we 'll only allow the participants who were at that meeting to look at it .
Are are people going to be allowed to bleep out sections of a meeting where they weren't speaking ?
Certainly for everybody who 's been in the meetings so far it would be sufficient .
I I don't see having a few phrases here and there in a meeting being that mu much of a headache , bleeped out .
They 're gonna hate this meeting .
and the meeting was about , , some funny thing about semantics , or

You 're talking about the type token frequency listings , and I use those too .
It 's one token from the from the corpus .
and then , there 's a he she wants the , actually a an explicit marker of what type of comment this is ,
you end up with a s with , you 're collapsing across a frequency you just have the tokens

because he 's peripherally involved to this point ,
, do another try at coming up with the agenda , at some point before the meeting ,
but now we have a convention which also involves having it followed by , , a gloss th and things .
And at that point then it 's ready for use by Liz and Don .
it 's all ready to go and just insert it .
You 're missing the point .
And then at some point I 'll incorporate them all and put bleeps .

So here 's the way I was imagining it , and maybe I 'm wrong ,
but the way I imagined it was that , the largest set of people is gonna go " , I didn't say anything funny in that meeting
this a set of skills that they would have to gain .

but I my thought was that the occasion of somebody wondering whether something was OK or not and needing to listen to it was gonna be extremely rare .
Right , so th the fact that you could listen to it over the web is a minor thing that I had already done for other reasons .
So it 's to have this facility to listen to it .
seems like is a perfectly , reasonable compromise .
my opinion probably is that the only time someone will need to listen to it is if the transcript is not good .
. So it 's like i in a way it 's it 's to have the responsibility still on them to listen to the tape and hear the transcript ,
, when I listen to these things , I don't find things that are questionable , in other people 's speech or in my own .

There 's lots of clicking I 'm as I 'm trying to get this to work correctly .
So they 're still working some of them are Two of them are still working on completing that .
I 'm I 'm working on it .
some people are r do their work primarily by sitting at the computer , flipping around the web ,
some researchers who are gonna be working with this corpus years from now are really gonna be cursing the fact that there 's a bunch of in there that 's missing from the dialogue .
having this headset reminds me of like working at Burger King .

the one who said it or someone who is being spoken about , we definitely want to allow the option of it being bleeped out .
and so much fun ! that they 're gonna go through and bleep out .
So you 're thinking people are going to arbitrarily start bleeping and don't think that 's gonna happen .
See I 'm @ @ worried about this interface so much fun that people start bleeping out just as just because they can .
I had fun when you played me something that was bleeped out .

the fact that it 's on a wired mike is suspicious .
it 's expensive , but it does seem to be better than the wired .
so what we would do is replace the wired mikes with wireless .
possibility of six wireless receivers ,
No , we 're just replacing the wired the two wired that are still working ,
along with a couple of the wired that aren't working , one of the wired that 's not working , with a wireless .

yes , that 's that 's exactly the strategy I wanna do in terms of locating these things which are colloquial spoken forms which aren't in the lexicon .
and " GLOSS " for things that have to do with if they said a s a spoken form with this m this pronunciation error .
And then , it 's a form , HTML form , so they can submit it and it will end up sending me email with the times that they want excluded .
that 's why I did the web form , because for me that would be my most convenient .
So I I probably should at the minimum , think about how to present it in a printed form .

And actually if everyone could cross out the R - nine next to " Session " , and write MR eleven .
So anyway there 's at least probably thirty hours ,
There 's got to be more than thirty hour
but it would come to about eleven hours that are finished , transcribing from them right now .
So let 's say roughly ten hours or so of
But the total set that I gave them is twelve hours of tape ,

, it would be to use his interface and I was going to meet with him today about that .
wanted some web interface so that people you didn't actually have to send everyone the text .
everyone in the meeting can access the web .
Whereas this web interface , get email ,
So maybe you don't give them access to the web interface unless they really need it .

So , , , Dave isn't here but he was going to start working on some things with the digits .
So anyway we have at least one , user for the digits once they get done , which will be Dave .
that 's including digits ,
That 's including digits .
I haven't separated it out so I have no clue how much of that is digits .
how many more digits to forms do we have back there ?

So maybe I 'll I 'll start with that actually .
I 'll put that on my spare brain or it will not get done .
but I 'll make he 's on the list .
if you , just take all the transcriptions and separate them into words and then alphabetize them , a lot of times just scanning down that list you 'll find a lot of inconsistencies and mis
i in alphabetized lists , they 'll appear next to each other and so it makes it easier .
and so they 'll be a difference in commas ,
or wi it 'll be available for you on the web , or anything .

I I would like to have a discussion about where we are on , recording , transcription
How are you doing the , acronyms so if I say PZM what would it appear on the transcript ?
So are you thinking that the person would have a transcript and go strictly from the transcript ?
it would end up being fairly difficult to edit the transcripts if we would do it at the sub - utterance level .
Once a transcript is available we will ask your permission to include the data in the corpus for the r larger research community .
Bmr014Edialogueact1027	224867	224884	E	Professor	b	-1	0	Yeah .
Bmr014Cdialogueact1029	225429	225805	C	Grad	s	+1	3	There again you will be allowed to indicate any sections that you 'd prefer to have excised from the database ,
Bmr014Cdialogueact1030	225837	226124	C	Grad	s	+1	3	and they will m be removed both from the transcript and the recording .
That 's more severe , but the next one says the transcript will be around .
, , or what if there was an error in the transcript that didn't get detected and there was a whole i segment a against some personal i th

that there are a subset of people who will want printouts that we can certainly provide .
And then there 'll be a subset of people ,
OK there 'll be a subset of people , who , will say " , , I really would like to see that . "
you wanna figure you have a train ride , and there 's all these situations where I
And then I figured , that out of that group , there would be a subset who would go " I 'm really not about this section here , "
certainly provide a printable version if people want it .

cuz it most ha most efficiently handled by by a filter .
cuz I 'm working
And there are some differences in commas cuz commas I left them discretion at commas .
cuz I have this convention that , i if they 're not what it was , they put it in parentheses .
then cuz " neural nets " and she has some things that are " downsampled " , she got that right .
Cuz you 're gonna get , , if I 'm I 'm in a bunch of meetings and I don't wanna get a stack of these .
Cuz if they feel that , it 's I th I th
Cuz sometimes you the words on a on the page , come out soun sounding different in terms of the social dynamics if they hear it .

What I 've done so far , and I wanna get some opinions on , how to how to finish it up .
but I 've noticed in the past that when I 've gone through transcriptions and in order to build lexicons and things ,
know I 've I 'm tempted to ask her if she 's taken any courses in this area or if she 's taken cognitive science courses
whenever I 've had a really , really long document that it was sitting on the web , I 've always ended up printing it out .
one or twi once or twice , in the re in the meetings we 've heard , where somebody said something that they might be embarrassed by ,
You 've provided something that 's useful for you to do handle ,

So I 've written a bunch of tools that will generate web pages , with the transcription in it so that they can click on them and piece pieces and they can scroll through and read them ,
So m what my intention to do is that as the transcripts become ready , I would take them , and generate the web pages
and just , tell them , " here 's the web page " ,
but flipping through a hundred pounds a hundred pages of is not easy on the web .
, cuz you don't have to visit the web page if you don't want to .
Just put the button on the web page which say " send me the scripts " .
When you display it on the web page , what are what are you showing them ?

Come get me when you transcribe this and see if there 's spikes .
Was the decision last time was that the transcribers were going to be doing with the digits as ?
Right , so , the decision was that Jane did not want the transcribers to be doing any of the paperwork .
Transcribers , he was rattling the b marbles in his brain back and forth just then this

Because I do think that there 's a benefit to being able to hear the tone of voice and the
But but it seems to me that sometimes , i if a person had a bad day , and they had a tone in their voice that they didn't really like , it 's it 's to be able to listen to it and be that was OK .
Or mail , physical mail .
leave it on their voice mail .

And let 's remember also to make that one 's gets marked as unread , unused .
for the person who missed " gobbledy - gook " what did they put ?
Each person will have a single password , user name and password .
And that way each person only has to remember one password .
, the only other choice is that the person would say " no , don't distribute this meeting " ,
, if it turns out that something gets published in this corpus that someone really should have eliminated and didn't detect , then it could have been because of their own negligence that they didn't pursue that next level and get the password and do that ,

You you risk less error if you handle it by a filter , than if you have this transcriber ch laboriously typing in a VOC space ,
so man So many ways that error prone .
So , , I 'm I 'm going to convert that via a filter , into these tagged , subcategorized comments ,
The letters would be separated in space
Maybe it 's a thing to do because of it then indicating this is , a step away from i indicating that it really is intentional that those spaces are there ,
but it 's it 's the specific way of stating these letters .
and we 're already short on disk space .

the date 's written in there , .
And , then I have a bunch of scripts that we 'll read those and let the transcribers use different tools .
, and I also have a bunch of scripts that will , like , generate P - files and run recognition on them also .
I f I was going through them all and I found actually a lot filed in with them , that were blanks , that no one had actually read .

The other topic I was thinking of was the sta status on microphones and channels , and all that .
So how many channels do you get to have in a wireless setup ?
So we 're not increasing the number of channels .
The next step is to that I 'm working on is to insure that the data are clean first , and then channelized .
and then channelized is to then , get it into this multichannel format .
But that 's been my top priority beyond getting it tanel channelized ,
this is my top priority get the data clean , and channelized .
and , it 's just in in this new multi - channel format and output ,
There is some , as the energy is normalized across channels
, and I and I tried t to normalize the features , there 's loudness and modified loudness , , within one channel ,

I would I would also that as we get more into processing the data and things like that there 'll be more things of interest to him .
we should talk to them about it because I know that SRI is also in the process of looking at ,
And want to talk to Jane about how we transition to using those .
, he 's still taking classes , so , he may have conflicts .
didn't he say his signal - processing class was like Tuesdays and Thursdays ?
I 'm I 'm about it with one of my background processes

meaning changing the connector , which means some hand - soldering ,
So it 's so hand - soldering it , but I 'm not doing it .
You 've never seen my hand - soldering .
And then they 'd hand it back to you .
I certainly read books by hand .
Because this way just delete an entire line out of a transcript file rather than have to do it by hand .

But th what they signed in the consent form , was something that said you can use my voice .
I agree that the consent forms were , I cons
agree with what Adam 's saying , that , the consent form did leave open this possibility that they could edit things which they found offensive whe whether they said them or didn't say them .
I 'm also concerned about the spirit of the of the informed consent thing .
but there 's , another aspect to that and that is that in the informed consent form , , my impression is that they that we offered them at the very least that they definitely would have access to the transcript .

So th question number one is how do we distribute the passwords ,
, to some extent I have to do that anyway because as I said we have to distribute passwords .
but you don't necessarily have to distribute passwords is what I 'm saying .
But we don't even necessarily need to end up distributing passwords .
So , in terms of password distribution , phone is really the only way to do it ,

the next step is to work on tightening up the boundaries of the time bins .
So there 's still no knowledge using different channels at the same time .
Because that means multiple contacts every time for every single meeting every time anyone wants anything .
, but they might be able to argue " it was cumbersome , and I was busy and it was gonna take me too much time to trace it down " .
meant that e every ev any time you say anything to anyone there is a bias that is presented ,
no because it doesn't automatically bleep it at the time .
It just sends me the time intervals .

and send email to every participant or contact them using the contact method they wanted ,
So you 're saying the sequence would be more like first Adam goes to the contact lists , contacts them via whatever their preferred method is , to see if they want to review the meeting .
So th so what I would see , is that first you contact them and ask them if they would like to review it for to check for the
If you have a problem with it contact me and I 'll give you a password " ,

I wanna just be able to go to go to the web site and visit it as I want .
Going to a web site is easy ,
. So giving them , you think a web site to say , " if you wanna print it out here it is " , is not sufficient ?
If they do , then he provides them access to the web site .
I would much prefer to have all be automatic , they visit the web site if they want to .
I know you 'd prefer it , but the proble

And for them , the easiest way to flip through , if it 's a really large document ,
so if you provide some search mechanism you go to every place they said something like that ,
if you don't have search mechanisms you just have this really , really long document ,

So we currently have one base station with six wireless mike ,
And so we could replace our wired mikes with wireless if we bought another base station and more wireless mikes .
And it 's , about nine hundred dollars for the base station ,
Beyond the mike the cost of the mikes the only thing is the base station that 's nine hundred dollars .
And so , we seem to have , a reliable way of getting the data in , which is through the ra Sony radio mikes ,

and also that we now incorporate these additional conventions that , Liz requested in terms of , in terms of having a s a systematic handling of numbers , and acronyms which I hadn't been specific about .
And that was that 's my strategy for handling a lot of these things , in terms of things that need to be glossed .
But the numbers and acronyms have to be handled by hand ,
or have variant u uses like the numbers you can say " nine two " or you can say " ninety - two " ,
I 'd handle the numbers individually .
and question number two is how else do we wanna provide this information if they want it .

That sounds like a spy code .
now TIMIT 's clear and PLP is clear
it was very clear to her that these the a this was a sound these are the sounds ,
I 'm not a law lawyer ,
The one question is definitely clear with anything as opposed to just what you said .
, and actually also the lawyer saying that , we shouldn't really have them have the people believing that they will be cleared by our checks .

And , she ends up getting the agenda requests , ten minutes before the meeting .
actually I have a segment of ten minutes that was transcribed by two of our transcribers ,
And I have t ten minute stretch where where show that .
But ch ten solid m ch s chunk of ten solid minutes where they both coded the same data .
because I my recollection is the minutes that da digits don't take more than half a minute . Per person .

as of , I a week and a half ago ,
And , Thilo had a e a breakthrough with this last week in terms of getting the channel - based s speech - nonspeech segmentation , up and running
and the other one has a better ear for colloquial speech .
So , the one i the colloquial speech person picked up " gobbledy - gook " .
, it 's just , I ran the recognizer , the speech - nonspeech detector on different channels
as , the recognizer had problems with those long chunks of speech , which took too much memory or whatever ,
because they 're , to be able to distinguish between foreground and background speech .

and if there 's gonna be a topic about discussion about something that he strongly cares about then he would come
. And they are being assembled as we speak , I hope .
If someone feels strongly enough about it , then I they should be allowed to do that .
since you seem to feel heart , strongest about it , would you like to do the first pass ?

And so , , some of the questions on this is what do we do about the privacy issue .
I don't think we can send the text through email because of the privacy issues .
But the issue of privacy and ease and should be that , they get access to this if they really need it .
And then if they say that " I have a potential problem with these things , " then , you say " OK you might wanna hear this in context to s think if you need that , " you issue them a password , i in the

so i curly b inside the curly brackets I 'm gonna put either " VOC " for vocalized ,
you get a whole list of things that say " curly bracket laugh curly bracket " ,
and potentially they 'll have a curly bracket thing afterwards

, , I 'm pretty that you can daisy - chain them together
OK , so I 'll look into how you daisy - chain them and then just go ahead and order them .
We had a pretty strong disagreement going there .

Any agenda items today ?
And then , the other thing which I would like to talk about which is a real meta - quest , , deal is , , agendas .
maybe it would be a good idea for one of us to like on Wednesday , or Tuesday send out a reminder for people to send in agenda items .
Alright so we 'll send out agenda request .
And I didn't bring my car today so I 'm gonna pick them up tomorrow .
so . wh I have an idea that may be sat may satisfy both you and me in this which is , ,

And and sometimes it turns out that one of these transcribers has a better ear for technical jargon ,
It was a technical term that she didn't recognize ,
but overall people are talking about technical topics .
Turn about is fair play ,
It is true that tec that the content is technical ,

First of all , if the other headsets are a lot more comfortable , we should probably just go ahead and get them .
Now the one thing that you have said that actually concerns me a little is you 're talking about changing the headsets
before there were they were some in the log domain and I changed this to the to the
No , I changed this to the to the loudness thingy with the with the

I wanna ask about , some aud audio monitoring on some of the some of the equipment .
OK audio monitoring , Jane .
In listening to some of these meetings that have already been recorded there are sometimes big spikes on particular things ,
Spikes , you mean like , instantaneous click type spikes , or ?
You could try an experiment and say " OK , I 'm about to test for spikes " ,
, were this a professional audio recording , what we would do what you would do is in testing it is , you would actually do all this wiggling and make that that things are not giving that performance .
, so , should we don't wan wanna do the recording status first , or ?

