The project manager recapped the events and decisions of the previous meeting.
The marketing expert presented research on user preferences and tendencies with remote controls.
The research indicated that users want remotes to be more attractive, to match the behavior of the user, to be easier to locate when misplaced, and not to cause RSI.
The research also indicated that younger users were interested speech recognition.
The user interface designer spoke on the option to have a universal remote, presented two differently designed remotes available on the market, and described some features a user-centered remote should include.
The industrial designer discussed the interior workings of a remote and then the team discussed the option to include speech recognition in their design.
The project manager briefed the team on some new requirements to abide by.
The team then discussed the option to include a recharger with a locater button in their design, the appearance of their remote, buttons, how to make an ergonomic remote, and the option to have a two-piece remote.
The industrial designer will work on components.
The team will explore the option of a two-piece remote.
The user interface designer will explore how well a rounded, ergonomic remote and a two-piece remote work with the user.
The marketing expert will examine trend watching reports
The remote will only be used for televisions.
The team will not work with teletext.
The corporate color and slogan must be incorporated into the design.
The remote will be simple.
The remote will look appealing.
The remote will be easy to find.
The remote will have a minimal number of buttons.
The remote will be yellow with black or gray buttons.
The corporate slogan will appear on the bottom of the remote.
The remote will have buttons for numbers, volume up and down, channel up and down, power, mute, and a menu.
The remote will include a scroll action.
The remote will be rounded in shape such that it fits comfortably in the hand.
The reliability of speech recognition.
Whether to include speech recognition.
How to accommodate left-handed people with an ergonomic design that fits right-handed people.
