The project manager opens the meeting by stating the agenda.
The industrial designer begins presenting, first describing the insides of a remote control.
He lists the options for types of batteries, shapes for the remote case, materials to use, and functions to include such as push buttons, scroll wheels, and LCD screens.
He then talks about the type of chip certain features would require.
The interface specialist begins presenting, first defining user interface and then showing some examples of remotes.
She mentions that many existing remotes do not have a nice appearance, and states her preference for a remote that is small and simple and contains a scrolling wheel.
The marketing expert gives her presentation about user requirements and current trends.
She shares that fruits and vegetables are popular, meaning curviness and assymetry are in.
The group decides to use LCD screens to give the remote style.
They discuss what material should be used, talk about how the surface of the case should look, and plan out the general user interface.
After they make some decisions about the remote, the project manager closes the meeting by telling them what their tasks will be until the next meeting.
The Industrial Designer will work on look and feel.
The Interface Specialist will work on user interface.
The Marketing Expert will work on the product evaluation.
The two designers will work together on developing a prototype using modeling glay and follow the instructions the group has come up.
They will get extra instructions from their personal coach
The remote control and its buttons will be made of rubber.
The case will be flat on top and curved on the bottom.
The remote will have push buttons outside, and an LCD and spinning wheel inside.
The remote will resemble a vegetable and be in bright vegetable colors.
It will have voice recognition, use a simple battery, and contain an advanced chip.
It will have standard on/off, channel-changing, numerical, and volume buttons, with a menu on the screen.
*NA*.
