The project manager recapped the decisions made in the previous meeting.
The industrial designer discussed possible materials to use in making the case for the remote, options for buttons, and options for batteries.
The interface specialist presented two existing products which incorporate features the team is seeking to embed in their remote.
The interface specialist also discussed other features to possibly incorporate into the design of the remote, such as an LCD screen.
The marketing expert discussed recent findings from trend watching reports and how to incorporate these findings into the remote design with respect to what materials to use and the overall appearance of the product.
The team then discussed other options for how they could incorporate a fruit and vegetable theme into the appearance of their product.
The team then discussed other options for batteries, chips, buttons, and materials for the case, as well as the option to have a menu function.
Two members of the team will work on creating a prototype using modeling clay.
The industrial designer will work on the look and feel of the design and will gather more information on curved and double-curved case options.
The marketing specialist will work on product evaluation.
The interface specialist will continue to work on the interface concept
The target group comprises of individuals who can afford the product.
The remote will use a kinetic battery.
The remote will have a latex case.
The remote will be made in fruity colors.
The remote will have some sort of a curved case.
The remote will have pushbuttons.
The remote will have a power button, volume buttons, channel preset buttons, and a menu button.
The remote will have a simple chip.
Having an LCD on the remote versus a menu that is viewed on the television screen.
Whether to use latex or titanium for the case.
How to incorporate a vegetable and fruit theme into the design of the remote.
What sort of circuit board to use.
Whether to use a simple, regular, or advanced chip.
Whether to use a scroll wheel or pushbuttons.
Whether to have a flat, curved, or double-curved case.
