The Marketing Expert gave a presentation about user requirements as shown through a usability study and demonstrated that only a small number of functions on a remote were used with frequency.
She suggested focusing the interface design on the most frequently used functions.
The User Interface Designer presented some questions that should be considered in making the device user-friendly and displayed two existing remote controls for comparison.
The Industrial Designer discussed the necessary internal components and how they operated together, and presented her preferences for the type of each component to be used.
The Project Manager gave the group several new requirements for the project.
The group discussed several product features and decided that the remote will feature a locator function and will not feature speech recognition.
The group discussed whether or not the remote should control multiple devices.
They discussed important button functions to include and increasing usability by incorporating a scroll wheel in the design.
The Project Manager instructed the other participants to fill out a questionnaire and to work on their individual presentations for the next meeting.
All participants will fill out a questionnaire after the meeting.
The Designers and the Marketing Expert will work on their individual presentations.
A locator device separate from the remote will be incorporated into the design, which will operate with radio signal.
Speech recognition will not be used.
The group decided that their target marketing group would be mostly teenagers and young professionals.
There will not be a stand in which the remote is placed when not in use.
The group decided that the locator function eliminated the need for this component.
The locator function will not involve an LED indicator; the remote will simply emit a sound when located.
The main interface will include a power button.
The main interface will include a scroll wheel function in place of a number pad.
Some of the group members had difficulties with their computers in opening their presentations.
The new requirements from the management regarding use with multiple devices were unclear.
