The Industrial Designer presented an analysis of cost and the manufacturing options that were available to the group.
The Marketing Expert presented market trends and the organic trend that this project would adopt.
She discussed materials that could be used to follow this trend.
The User Interface Designer presented several interface concepts including voice recognition, a spinning wheel design, and a touch screen interface.
The group then discussed the features of the device.
They discussed the costs and benefits of using either voice recognition or the touch screen interface, and decided on voice recognition based on their marketing data that favored it.
They decided to use solar power to power the device.
The group discussed the non-traditional look the device could have since the voice recognition would allow it to be stationary.
They discussed using rubber for the case.
The group talked about hiding the complicated functions from the main interface, using rubber for the buttons, and having different cases to suit different tastes.
The Project Manager reiterated that the product was being marketed towards the youth market, and then gave out assignments and instructed the group to work together to build the prototype.
The Industrial Designer, the User Interface Designer, and the Marketing Expert were instructed to work together on making the prototype of the remote control.
The Industrial Designer will build the look of the device using the new manufacturing constraints that were presented.
The User Interface Designer was assigned the task of making the design layout of the device.
The Marketing Expert was instructed to check the evaluations of the prototype.
The group realized that it would be too costly to add both a voice recognition component and a touch screen, so they decided between the two and will now only add the voice recognition component.
The group decided to have optional alternative cases for the device to suit different consumer tastes.
It was also decided that the remote will not have the traditional look of a hand-held remote since it can be stationary with voice recognition software.
The remote control will be made of a soft rubber material.
The device will be powered by solar power, with a small backup battery.
There were difficulties deciding between adding extra features and staying within the project budget.
The participants had problems projecting how much each added feature would drive up the price point of the device because there was a lack of data on manufacturing cost.
