The Industrial Designer gave her components concept presentation, which presented the components that will be used and how they will be integrated into the functional design.
She announced that their only choice for casing material was wood, so she suggested an idea of having customizable wood cases.
The User Interface Designer gave her presentation on the user interface concept for the product, and gave a basic layout of the remote's key functions.
The Marketing Expert presented the marketing concept and discussed including a display to facilitate use.
The group discussed the unique, custom design of the remote, and quickly talked about finding a manufacturer that could make the custom cases cheaply that still paid fair wages.
The group also discussed whether or not to incorporate the display into the design, and decided to wait until the cost of adding that feature was known before adding it to the design.
The Industrial Designer and the User Interface Designer were instructed to begin building a prototype, and the Marketing Expert was instructed to work on the marketing strategy as well as research the cost of the display component.
The Industrial Designer and the User Interface Designer will design the prototype of the remote control.
The Marketing Expert will find out how much the display component costs and will present his marketing strategy at the next meeting.
The group decided on the features that will be included in the final design of the prototype.
The remote will have customized wood casing and ergonomic sizing, voice recognition, a locator function, rubber buttons in a simple arrangement, an advanced chip, and a battery life indicator.
The group discussed including a display on the remote, but the prototype will be designed without a display until the Marketing Expert finds out how much it would cost to add it.
The group decided to contact another company to manufacture the product that could do it cheaply yet still paid fair wages.
The number of options for the material used for the casing was restricted; the group was left with one material that could be used for the product.
There was a lack of information on how much certain components would cost.
