The project manager opens the meeting and presents the agenda using slides.
The marketing expert explains the research she read about, which is a study done on 100 people asking their remote usage habits and preferences.
The Industrial Designer presents, explaining the basic function of a remote control and how it works.
He says they should first agree on the technical functions before he creates working design and chooses the chips and infrared components to build it.
The Interface Designer gives his presentation, talking about the remote's technical function of sending a message to the TV set that is decoded by the TV.
Standard TV remotes have an on/off button, play, volume change, number keypad, and a 1 or 2 digit option.
He suggests that in aiming for the next generation they should have a remote for the TV and video integrated together.
The project manager recieves a message from account manager, which he shares with the group.
They discuss and determine the target group as well as the possibility of making a universal remote for stereo, VCR, and TV.
They close the meeting with the project manager telling each group member what they will do before the next meeting.
The industrial designer will try to find out which components are needed.
The interface designer will get more specific user interface content.
The marketing expert will look at what trends are in this type of market
They will target the 20-40 age group.
Teletext is a well known feature of televisions but is no longer in frequent use because of the internet, will not be used.
The remote should be trendy as possible but still have a reliable image so that it does not appear poorly-functional.
The group is interested in creating a universal remote, however they are unable to deterine what components are needed without looking at the standards and current trends in the market.
One group member brought up that it is not possible to make a universal high-performance remote with the given budget.
More research is necessary to determine this.
