The User Interface Designer and the Industrial Designer presented two prototypes, one with an LCD screen and one without.
They demonstrated how to navigate through the menus and presented the voice recognition and energy source components and the charging stand.
They discussed their modular design.
They discussed the parental control module and the titanium casing.
The production costs were below budget for the basic models.
The Marketing Expert presented three important user requirements, and also the fruit and vegetable and spongy material trends in fashion.
He then led an evaluation of the prototypes according to these requirements.
The group did not feel that the remotes sufficiently met the criteria.
They decided to continue working on the design and to take out the LCD screen and voice recognition.
They discussed the modular design and its advantages in attracting customers.
The group discussed how to incorporate the fashion trends; it was suggested that one shape was used, which could be customized with skins.
The Project Manager led an evaluation of the group's experience on the project.
The group was pleased with the teamwork and leadership, but one participant complained that not enough information was given about each meeting's agenda.
The User Interface Designer and the Industrial Designer will look into options for spongy skin materials.
The remote will feature rechargeable double-A batteries and a charging stand.
The remote can be customized for adults, children, or the elderly.
The remote has a misplacement reminder that sends a message to the television screen to remind users to put the remote back in the charger when not in use.
The remote features a modular design that allows users to add as many or as few components as they wish to the basic model.
The group was unsatisfied with the design and decided to continue working on it, focusing on a fancier design.
The remote will not feature an LCD screen or voice recognition.
The group decided that the teamwork and leadership of the project were good, but that not enough information was given about each meeting's agenda.
The group had difficulty deciding what would be displayed on the LCD screen.
The group felt that too much focus was placed on the functionality of the remote such that they could not achieve a fancy look.
The group did not feel that the prototype met the user requirements presented by the Marketing Expert.
The group could not decide how to incorporate the fashion trends into the design.
Not enough information was given about the agenda of each meeting.
