The project manager stated that the goal for the current meeting was to decide upon a concept for the remote the team is creating.
The marketing expert discussed his findings from trend watching reports.
He found that current trends are such that a product must have a fancy look and feel, be technologically innovative, be easy to use, incorporate a fruit and vegetable motif, and must be spongy.
The user interface designer discussed how to create an interface for a remote that is easy to use.
The user interface designer discussed the placement of commonly used buttons, the overall shape of a remote, and how to hide less commonly used buttons.
The industrial designer discussed various components and energy sources the remote could include.
The industrial designer focused on the use of a TFT screen and the use of solar cells to supplement the energy from two regular batteries.
The team then discussed and made decisions regarding the option to use solar cells, the specifications of an LCD screen, how to incorporate a fruit and vegetable motif into their design, and how to hide lesser used buttons.
The industrial designer will work on the look and feel of the design.
The user interface designer will work on the user interface design.
The marketing expert will work on the project evaluation.
The industrial designer and user interface designer will work together on a prototype
The remote will feature a small sized LCD screen.
The LCD screen on the remote will be a touch screen.
The remote will resemble a banana.
The remote will use infra-red technology.
The remote will have a spongy outer layer.
The remote will have a hidden layer containing the lesser used buttons.
The remote will feature solar cells.
The remote will use speech recognition.
Size of TFT screen and its impact on the size of the remote overall.
Whether users will expose the remote to sunlight to recharge it if the remote contains solar cells.
The size and shape of the remote.
How to incorporate a fruit and vegetable motif into the design of the remote.
How to have a fruit shaped remote with an LCD screen.
How to hide the lesser used buttons.
