The meeting begins with the group trying to resolve some equipment issues and waiting for Anna's arrival.
Then the project manager introduces the meeting by saying they have some technical tools with which to communicate so they will try to get acquainted with them first.
He starts talking about the product they are to design, a remote control which should be original, trendy, and user-friendly.
The general outline of the project will be the functional, conceptual, and detailed design.
They do some tool training by trying out the whiteboard, and each person draws his/her favorite animal on it.
The project manager proceeds to talk about the project finance, which is followed by a group discussion about what functions a good remote control has.
This includes the basics such as on/off, channel up/down browsing, volume and record button(s).
At this point they clarify their names and roles in the group and then resume talking about remote control functions.
They discuss some functions such as a personal video recorder, but say it is probable that they cannot produce a fancy device given their budget.
The project manager closes the meeting by telling each group member what he/she will be working on.
The interface designer will work on a general design.
The industrial designer will work on the technica function design.
The marketing expert will think about user requirements.
The selling price of the product will be about twenty five Euros each.
The production cost will be twelve Euros and fifty cents.
The profit will be about fifty million Euro.
-The remote will target an international market.
The remote will be for use with the television set.
The necessary buttons are on/off, channel up/down browsing, volume, and record button(s).
They have not decided what functions the remote can have, but they have discussed that they may not be able to produce something extremely fancy with the given budget.
They will need to examine user requirements before deciding on what functionalities are necessary.
