The project manager goes through the minutes of the last meeting.
They have the prototype presentation and talk about the final design, features, and power source, type of chip and weight of the remote.
They go through the evaulations, using the a list of criteria made by the marketing expert.
They rate each criteria on a scale of 0 (true) to 7 (false): how fancy it is, how handy it is, how functional, how cool it is, whether they would spend twenty five euro for it, and whether they would change their current remote for this one.
Next they do a cost estimate for production.
In doing this, they decide against solar cells and go with the rechargable batteries.
They keep the regular chip, stick with plastic, put two scroll wheels and three push buttons, and make it a special shade of yellow.
They eliminate the turbo button and give the remote a single curve because of budget restrictions.
They briefly evaulate the project process and close the meeting.
*NA*
It will be shaped like a banana, with an base station resembling a banana leaf for it to sit on.
The volume scroll wheel will be on the left, channel scroll on the right.
Will contain a teletext button, when pressed teletext appears and channel selector can be used to navigate through the teletext.
Infared port on top of banana as well as bottom front of base station.
The control will be the approx.
Weight of an actual banana but a special shade of yellow.
Will be made of plastic.
Three push buttons.
For pricing reasons eliminate solar cells - use rechargable batteries as power source, base station used for battery-charging which should last 8-10 hours depending on frequency of use.
For pricing reasons they will use a regular chip for the control rather than advanced one.
For pricing reasons the remote will have a single, not double curve.
For pricing reasons they eliminate the turbo button.
For pricing reasons they had to use a regular chip instead of advanced, single curve instead of double, rechargable batteries instead of solar cells, and eliminate the turbo button.
