The Industrial Designer presented an overview of the internal components of a remote control device.
He discussed energy source and material options, and suggested that using rubber and plastic would be the most versatile option.
He displayed the three options for chips.
The User Interface Designer discussed voice recognition with the group, and the group decided to not use it in their design.
He suggested using rubber buttons because of their durability.
He discussed the size of the device and the layout of the interface, and suggested that the remote be moderately sized to prevent its getting lost.
The Marketing Expert expressed concern that the remote lacked enough features to be distinctive.
The group had a discussion to decide on the product features.
They decided to include a charging stand, to use a thin rubber casing material, to include a locator function and a scroll wheel with two channel-changing options to increase its usability.
The group discussed the cost of the various components and decided to sell the device at a point between thirty-five and fifty Euros.
The User Interface Designer and the Industrial Designer were instructed to construct the prototype.
The User Interface Designer and the Industrial Designer will construct the prototype.
The remote will not feature voice recognition.
The group decided to include a charging stand to help users keep track of their remote.
A locator function will also be included.
The device will be covered in a thin rubber casing.
A scroll wheel will be included for the channel-changing function, and will allow users to switch between scrolling through pre-programmed favorite channels and through all channels.
The projected price point will be changed to a point between thirty-five and fifty Euros.
The remote will feature back-lit buttons.
There was a lack of information on the cost of components.
The group had difficulty finding a balance between keeping the project cost low and adding enough features to make the product distinctive.
