The Industrial Designer presented options for each component.
He suggested kinetic energy, a titanium case, and rubber push buttons.
The group will ask if the kinetic energy component can provide enough energy.
The User Interface Designer introduced the graphical user interface to the group and suggested using an LCD screen.
He presented several existing products and suggested the following: large buttons; voice recognition; either push, scroll, or spinning buttons; and incorporating some customizable components.
The group discussed including a help button; it was decided that it would make the device seem more complicated.
The Marketing Expert presented that users found remotes too easily lost, complicated, and ugly.
He showed that users were willing to pay more for a fancy remote.
He suggested the LCD screen; the group felt that it was better to utilize the user's television as a display screen, but that they would inquire about cost before deciding.
The group will inquire about the cost of voice recognition and scroll buttons.
The group discussed incorporating a locator function and customization for children.
They discussed the sensitivity of the voice recognizer to other noises; the group will ask about the capability of the recognizer.
The group will find out if the kinetic energy component can provide enough energy.
The group will inquire about the cost of voice recognition and the scroll button.
The group will ask about the capability of the voice recognition component.
The group decided not to include a help button on the device because it would make the remote seem more complicated.
There was not enough information about the capabilities of the voice recognizer or the kinetic energy source.
There was not enough information on the cost of several components.
No decision was made about whether or not the LCD screen should be included.
No decision was made about including a locator function, or what form it should take.
No decision was made about making the remote programmable for children.
