The Project Manager gave new requirements for the product: the remote will not include a teletext function, will only be used for television, and must show the corporate image.
The Industrial Designer presented  possible components to consider.
The group then discussed hard materials to include in the design.
The Marketing Expert presented an initial sales plan and showed that there is a demand for remotes featuring voice recognition and other capabilities; the group discussed how it could be integrated into the functional design.
The Project Manager offered to help the Industrial Designer find companies to provide help in integrating this component.
The designers expressed that they needed more information from the board on their expectations for the product.
The User Interface Designer gave a presentation on product design from the user's perspective and emphasized simplicity in design.
She also suggested that the group make a decision on which features to include in the final product design, but the group decided to postpone it.
The designers were given their assignments: the Marketing Expert will present the marketing concept; the User Interface Designer, the user interface concept; the Industrial Designer, the components concept.
The Industrial Designer will make a presentation on the components concept for the product.
The User Interface Designer will make a presentation on the user interface concept.
The Marketing Expert will present the marketing concept.
The Project Manager will research companies that can provide the Industrial Designer with help on integrating voice recognition into her design.
The group will discuss which features to include in and eliminate from the final design of the product at the next meeting.
The remote will have a slim shape and a simple interface, include a locator function and voice recognition, and be made of a hard material.
The group was not sure whether to proceed in the design process with all of the desired functions and eliminate them later, or to eliminate some features before creating the design concept.
There was a lack of sufficient information from the board on their expectations for the design of the remote, whether they expected a simple device or a more costly one with many features.
