The User Interface Designer presented the prototype of the product to the group.
The product featured an LCD display, a flip panel, and a customizable case back.
The Project Manager displayed the cost of all of the components, and the group decided that the current budget would not allow the addition of the LCD display.
The Project Manager decided to negotiate the cost of production to allow the addition of the display.
The Marketing Expert gave a presentation on sales projection and showed that the current projected sales point would probably not allow the project to reach its profit aim.
The group also discussed the distribution and promotion of the product on the internet.
The User Interface Designer expressed concern that there would not be time under the current plan to make changes to the product resulting from consumer testing; the Project Manager decided that no additional changes would be made.
The group then discussed other means of promoting the product: launching the remote at the same time as a large sporting event or DVD release.
The Project Manager will negotiate with production companies and with management to decrease the cost of production.
He will also present the new promotion plan to management.
The Marketing Expert will begin his marketing plan after production has begun.
The group will evaluate the product after real units have been produced.
The group decided that the LCD display will be included in the design and that the microphone for the remote will be placed on the side of the device.
The Project Manager decided to negotiate the cost of production to allow the integration of the display into the design.
The group will work with other companies to promote the product and have it released along with other products or with an event, such as a sporting event.
The Project Manager decided that no additional changes will be made to the remote.
The product evaluation will occur at a later time, after the production of some real units have been produced, rather than evaluating the prototype.
The group will have to make many changes to their original budget plans after the final cost analysis showed that their current budget would not cover the cost of all components and that the current price point would not meet the expected profit goal.
The group had problems agreeing on the project agenda, if more or less time should have been alotted for user testing and making changes to the design.
