As the meeting opens the project manager tells the group that they must stay within the budget of twelve Euro and fifty cents or will have to redesign.
After Matthew arrives the designers begin presenting the two prototypes, beginning with the basic conventional one which is shaped like a surfboard and costs 7 or 8 Euros to produce.
It contains an on-off button, volume switch, up/down channel function, 10 digits, and two extra buttons for teletext and an additional function.
The next control is futuristic because feels like a mobile phone, has 6 keys, and is smooth.
It also has a power button, channel up/down, slow pause/slow stop, LCD screen, toggle switch that changes it from audio to video, and microphone.
It would cost 16 Euros to produce, which is out of the budget.
The marketing expert gives the product evaluation and they rate them on look and feel, innovation, ease of use, appeal to the correct demographic, and adherence to the company motto and fashion trends.
They discuss the energy source, shape, chip type, LCD and speech recognition, and additional buttons.
After choosing features their remote costs 12 Euros to produce.
They close the meeting by thanking one another.
NA.
The remote will be double-curved.
The energy source will be a normal AA battery.
Shaped like a surfboard.
Made of plastic.
Will contain a regular chip.
Have no LCD screen or speech recognition.
Addition of two buttons.
Production cost 12 Euros, 50 cents cheaper than budget.
Will talk to the suppliers to see if they can lower prices and add a few more features.
The group created two design prototypes to choose from.
When they rated both products, they found that the basic version was not innovative enough but the advanced version was too costly.
They eliminated many of the features of the advanced version, eventually bringing them near to the basic.
It was a long and tedious process, taking much time for them to reach an agreement since some felt an LCD screen was necessary and others did not.
