The project manager opened the meeting and then the industrial designer discussed the interior workings of a remote along with his personal preferences for the appearance of a remote.
The user interface designer discussed the technical functions of a remote and indicated that a user centered approach to designing the interface would be preferable.
The marketing expert discussed the functional requirements of a remote and user tendencies in using remotes.
The marketing expert indicated that an ideal remote would include an LCD screen, would not be too small in size, and is easy to use.
The project manager briefed the team on some new requirements and led them in a discussion in which the team discussed their target group and made decisions on the appearance and functions of their upcoming product.
*NA*
The team will not pay any attention to teletext.
The remote will only be used for televisions.
The product needs to reach a new market with customers under forty.
The corporate image must be recognizable in the product.
The remote will have buttons within the LCD display for power, volume selection, channel selection, digits from zero to nine, mute, a menu for teletext, a battery indicator, to access double digits, screen settings, channel settings, and audio settings.
The remote will feature an LCD screen.
The LCD screen will have a separate menu for teletext.
The remote will shut down when the television shuts down.
The remote will go into standby when idle.
The LCD screen will have a low battery indicator.
The remote will have a rechargeable battery which comes with a charger.
The remote will be capable of speech recognition if there is enough money left in the team's budget.
The remote will allow users to have the possibility to enlarge the buttons.
The remote will have a general menu with the most used functions.
The remote will be button-less.
How much an LCD screen costs.
If consumers over forty will want a remote with an LCD screen.
Whether to include buttons for teletext.
What sort of power supply to use since the LCD screen requires a large amount of power.
What to do if people forget to recharge the batteries in their remote.
Where consumers will place the charger.
Whether to implement speech recognition.
Whether the remote should feature a regular power button or if the power button should be integrated with the LCD display.
