The Project Manager announced that the remote should only control television, and that the marketing should be targeted towards ages 40 and above.
The Marketing Expert presented the results of a lab study on users of remote controls, and showed that users want a fancier, less complicated remote that does not get lost easily.
The group decided not to use speech recognition or an LCD screen to target the older demographic.
The User Interface Designer discussed the button functions and how to make channel-changing easier.
The group decided not to include programmable "favorites" buttons.
The Industrial Designer presented the internal components of the device.
The group discussed having the remote light up when used.
He also stressed that the remote must be compatible with all television brands.
The Project Manager corrected his target group announcement and announced that the target age group was actually ages 40 and below.
The group again discussed the possibility of adding speech recognition and LCD screens to the design but decided that it was not feasible.
The group decided to have the remote light up when used and is including teletext.
The Marketing Expert was instructed to report on trendwatching.
The Marketing Expert will prepare a report on trendwatching.
The remote will not feature speech recognition or an LCD screen.
The remote will light up when a button is pressed, much like a mobile phone.
Complicated features will be hidden from the more simple functions on the main interface.
The remote will feature teletext capabilities, and the teletext buttons will be included on the main interface.
There was a misunderstanding about the target user group that forced the group to reevaluate their decisions on several components once they received the correct information.
The new requirement that the remote was only to control television forced the group to change some of their initial design ideas.
The group did not reach a decision on how to ensure that the remote would recognize all brands of televisions.
