For the conceptual design, the marketing expert talked about the public's preference for looks and texture over technological innovation; however, they both seem to be more important than ease of use.
The current fashion among younger people favours bright colours and fruit and vegetable themes: pertinent exchangeable fronts can express such trends on the remote.
Materials also need to be strong: the marketing expert suggested an iron-plate or titanium front.
The industrial designer suggested they use rubber push buttons (and no scroll wheel), simple battery (instead of solar cells or kinetic dynamo), and advanced chip.
Speech recognition can be implemented, but it does not link speech commands to remote control actions.
He also advised that the users within the target group prefer primary colours, soft textures and curved shapes.
The team drew a provisional prototype.
They placed the LCD below the buttons.
If it is implemented, a recording button, microphone and speaker need to be included in the design.
Finally, they decided to have a titanium case with plastic front and the company logo and slogan engraved.
Packages with a variety of changeable fronts will be launched.
The industrial designer and the user interface designer will work on a drawing of a prototype, where they will also sort out the details about the buttons.
The marketing expert will carry out an evaluation of the product.
The push buttons are going to be made of rubber.
The chip needs to be an advanced one to be compatible with the LCD screen that is going to be incorporated in the design.
Making changeable fascias can allow for the integration of this or future fashion trends in the device.
The team agreed to place the LCD at the bottom of the device, below the buttons.
TV settings will be included in menus there instead of having separate buttons for them.
They will implement speech recognition as well, because their target group like such gimmicks.
The case will be titanium with a plastic front with rounded buttons.
Parts of the front (like the bottom where the LCD is and the top corner where the logo is) will also be titanium.
The chip is going to be a standard one.
They will launch the product with various fronts to choose from including a couple of basic colours or fruit and vegetable themes to go with the current fashion.
The logo will be both at the front and the back of the remote; the company slogan will be engraved at the back.
The team found a possible conflict between the need for strong materials and the customers' preference for soft textures.
Plastic may be strong, but it does not necessarily look it.
The version of speech recognition discussed does not link voice commands to actual device actions.
Changing the front colours may make the front clash with the titanium, but it was also thought neutral enough for it not to matter.
They wondered whether to use both the logo and the slogan on the device and where it would be best for them to be placed.
