For the conceptual design, the marketing expert talked about the public's preference for looks over technological innovation; however, they both seem to be more important than ease of use.
The current fashion among younger people favours bright colours and fruit and vegetable themes and spongy materials: pertinent exchangeable fronts can express such trends on the remote, and could also provide themes for other target groups.
They could also add some rubber to provide easy grip of the device.
Cases can be flat, single- or double-curved.
They can be made of plastic, rubber, wood or titanium.
Hand or kinetic dynamos, batteries, and solar cells can be used as energy sources.
Possible interfaces are push buttons, scroll wheels, and LCDs. A way to make this device different would be to use a scroll-wheel on the side with integrated button for volume control and mute.
Speech recognition can be implemented by adding a sample sensor and speaker on the remote.
The final decisions also included combined battery with solar cells.
The team will design a single-curved device with a scroll wheel and speech recognition, in black and yellow, the company colours.
The industrial designer and the user interface designer will work on a drawing of a prototype.
They will think about ways to make their product different from the others in the market.
They will also try to find a way to promote the corporate identity in the design of the look and feel and interface.
The ID and UI will also have to figure out whether to use rubber just for the buttons and side finish, or for the whole front of the remote.
The marketing expert will carry out a product evaluation.
Changeable covers for the remote control can link the product to current fashion trends, but also trends followed by other age groups.
A scroll wheel will be included in the design.
A regular chip will be needed for this.
A single-curved rubber casing can also be used.
LCD is not going to be implemented.
The preferred energy source was a combination of batteries and solar cells.
It is not clear whether a kinetic dynamo can be used, because it is unlikely that a user shakes the remote enough, as one would do with similarly powered watches.
The use of a scroll wheel with integrated button was debated, as not everyone was convinced of its use for this project.
Using the speech recognition on the device may not be convenient, since the remote will have to pointing towards the TV at the same time for the infrared to work.
LCD screens may add an extra hi-tech touch, but given all the other features, it might be too much.
The company colours (grey and yellow and black) did not seem sufficiently bright and trendy to everyone.
Printing an image on the remote to make it more colourful is doable, but cannot be done by the manufacturing department.
The front could have a rubber finish, or the buttons will be made of rubber.
It was debated that customers may prefer a total spongy texture, not just in the buttons and the sides of the remote.
