The industrial designer talked about the options available for materials and components.
He suggested that the case should be double-curved, and be made from plastic and rubber rather than wood or titanium.
He also recommended using basic batteries rather than solar or kinetic power.
He also mentioned the possibility of using an LCD screen to add something special.
The user interface designer went over the functions to be included in the remote.
The group discussed using large buttons for the most frequently used functions.
The marketing expert gave a presentation on trend watching.
A fancy look and feel is most important to users, followed by technological innovation and ease of use.
The younger market also likes the theme of fruit and vegetables and spongy material, which could be implemented through fruity colours and using a spongy material for the base.
The group discussed how to incorporate a fruit and vegetable theme, as well as the company colours and logo.
The group discussed whether to include an LCD screen, and eventually decided against it.
The project manager closed the meeting and told the group they would receive emails about their tasks for the next meeting.
The project manager will write up the minutes and put them in the shared folder, using a keyboard instead of the digital pen.
The rest of the group will receive instructions via email.
The remote will not feature an LCD screen.
The remote will be available in different colour schemes, but not with changeable fronts.
The case will be made of plastic and rubber.
The remote will feature power, skip, volume, mute, teletext and menu buttons.
The project manager had problems using the digital pen to write the minutes.
The group were not sure to what extent the remote should incorporate the fruit and vegetable theme.
The industrial designer was keen to incorporate an LCD screen, but the others were not so sure.
The group were not sure whether to use plastic and rubber or titanium for the case.
They were not sure how to use fruity colours without being too flashy.
