The UI and ID presented a prototype drawing of the remote control design.
The rubber case is yellow with black buttons and dark yellow for the menus.
There are buttons for teletext, favourite channel, mute and OK.
It incorporates both LCD screen and speech recognition.
The prototype proved over budget (17 euros).
The main contributing factors were the LCD and speech recognition.
The latter was taken out, along with the special colour.
Everyone agreed that the financial information should not have been given to them at the last moment.
After the costing, the original prototype was evaluated on a scale of 1(excellent)-7(very bad).
The criteria used were look and feel (1), whether it is easy to find (1), whether it is easy to learn (2), use of LCD (3), speech recognition (7), trendiness (2).
Finally, the team evaluated the project process in terms of creativity (satisfactory), leadership and teamwork (happy with it, but they missed communicating in between meetings), and means (SMARTboard could be improved in terms of response time, the digital pens could not be used on more than one page at the same time).
Finally, the decided to call their design Triple-R.
The PM is going to finish the project report.
The UI and ID will send him their design to include.
Because the prototype was over budget, the team decided to take out the speech recognition from the design.
They also discarded the special colour, and decided to rely on the changeable covers for an attractive look.
The remote control is going to be called Triple-R.
The production cost was 17 euros, 4.5 more than the budget.
It was imperative that some of the features had to be taken out.
There was disagreement over whether the special colour should be scrapped and the look to rely on the separate covers.
Other solutions, like abandoning the curve of the casing or replace the rubber with plastic were also suggested.
They were also not allowed to raise the budget limit.
The precise use of the LCD was not defined: it could be used for TV configuration, or, if possible, for displaying the TV programme and previews.
Although the SMARTboard was useful to draw ideas quickly , it could be improved in terms of response time.
Similarly, the digital pens did not allow the user to work on more than one page at a time.
The team were unable to communicate amongst themselves in between meetings, which hindered the flow of information.
