The ID and UI presented the drawing of a prototype.
It is rounded, with the front made of hard plastic in different colours.
The back, as well as the lower part of the front are made of titanium.
The back has the logo and slogan of the company engraved in its middle.
The buttons include oval digit buttons, arrow-shaped channel and volume controls in the middle; below those, is the menu (for the LCD) and the video button.
The LCD can be found at the lower section of the device.
After the presentation, the product was evaluated.
This was done on a scale of 1(excellent)-7(very bad) on fancifulness, ease of use, finding the device when it is lost, hi-tech features, incorporation of fashion trends, and ergonomic design.
Because it was over budget, titanium was replaced by plastic and the speech recognition was discarded.
They thought it would have been more sensible to have the component costs before the prototype design.
Finally, the team evaluated the project process in terms of creativity (generally satisfied), leadership (the process was democratic, not happy with management), teamwork (happy with it), and means (SMARTboard was 'a disaster' and the digital pens only good for drawings).
*NA*
Despite disagreement regarding the position of the LCD (top or bottom), the screen was left at the bottom as it was in the prototype.
The sample speaker was taken out to bring the cost of the prototype down to the original budget of 12.50 euros.
They also decided to replace titanium with similar-looking plastic for the same reason.
There was criticism for the shape of the remote (thicker at the ends, thinner at the middle).
The project manager still disagreed on the position of the LCD: he would prefer it to be at the top.
The total cost of the prototype was 18.6 euros.
The team had to discuss which features should be discarded.
The only way was to go to a regular chip, but that would mean losing the LCD screen, which was integral to the design.
Replacing the titanium with plastic would have a detrimental effect on the looks of the remote.
The team discussed the possibility to leave the remaining cost at 14.10.
The SMARTboard was considered a disaster as they could not draw, and the digital pens can only be useful for drawings.
Some people thought that there was no advantage to using the SMARTboard instead of a normal blackboard and chalk, although you can save and reuse things with the former.
