The project manager opened the meeting.
The user interface designer and industrial designer presented the prototype design.
The remote has buttons for power, mute, teletext, volume and channel up/down, and nine numbered channel buttons.
The group discussed what buttons would be needed to enter channels 10 and above.
They discussed adapting the docking station so it could be used with other products but did not make a decision.
The remote is plastic with different coloured rubber strips on the sides and rubber buttons.
The marketing expert led the product evaluation.
The group were generally satisfied with the design but did not think the remote was technologically innovative.
The overall score was 2.6.
The group worked out the manufacturing costs.
The group had problems figuring out the cost of the docking station and buttons, and did not know which kind of chip to use.
They discussed using kinetic energy to make the remote more technologically innovative but decided against it.
They eventually decided that they could not afford a docking station.
They did not have time to evaluate the project process before the end of the meeting.
The group will fill out a final questionnaire.
The remote will use a simple chip.
The remote will use a standard battery and not kinetic energy.
The remote will not come with a docking station.
The group could not agree what buttons would be needed to enter channels 10 and above.
The could not decide whether the docking station should be adapted for use with other products.
The group did not know how much the docking station would cost.
They were not sure what kind of chip they would need or where to find this information.
They were not sure how much the buttons would cost because they seemed too expensive.
They were not sure whether they could afford the docking station.
The project manager wanted to use kinetic energy but the others were not convinced.
The group were dissatisfied with the final product.
They did not have enough time to evaluate the project process.
