There are some new requirements for the project: the device will have to be for TV only, they should ignore the teletext function, as it is dated, and, also, the remote should be recognisable as a Real Reaction product.
The target group will be people below 40.
The UI preferred an easy-to-use remote to a multi-function one.
The function of the remote is relatively simple: by pressing a button a current is passed to the chip, and defines what signal is to be sent to the receiver (the TV) via infrared.
The use of infrared, energy-efficient power source and cheap circuit was suggested.
The remote could light up via LED's placed inside.
Functions like zapping are very prevalent, as well as complaints about remotes being easy to lose.
It also transpires that customers like innovative technology like speech recognition.
The design can focus on such customer needs, like finding a mechanism to locate a lost remote.
The functions of the remote will include a back button to switch between two channels, volume, program selection, and speech recognition, with a focus on simplicity of design.
The industrial designer will look into what would be an appropriate technology to help users find their remote, when it is lost.
The project manager will add the minutes into the project folder.
The ID will present the components concept.
The UI will present the user interface concept.
The marketing expert will need to find information on current trends.
LED's can be used to light up the remote.
Using them sparsely, as in mobile phones, could bring down the cost.
It would be a good idea to integrate a mechanism for finding the remote control, when the user loses it.
The latter would be preferable to implementing a backlight into the remote.
A single, large, round button can be used for both volume and channel selection by using the four separate quadrants.
Another button to switch between two channels could also be implemented.
The remote will also include volume and program selection, and speech recognition.
A recharging cradle can be added to compensate for the extra energy consumption.
LED's would signify extra energy consumption.
Power-saving LED's are available, but these could be more expensive.
It's difficult to choose a technique to find a lost remote.
They cannot install a special button on a TV, and using a special signal, like clapping, is tricky, because it needs to be differentiated from normal sounds.
Similarly, using an extra base station would probably be too costly.
Adding such features may complicate the design and escalate costs.
There was a challenge regarding the need of the digit channels, based on the fact that they are not often used, and they also look dull.
Despite that, customers may want them to be on a remote; furthermore, they can be designed in a more attractive way.
The discussion also focused on their replacement with speech recognition, as the latter helps with locating the remote as well.
However, this solution may prove too expensive.
An expanded target group may have to be taken into account in order to achieve the projected sales and profits.
