The UI and ID presented a prototype drawing of the remote control design.
It can be used as a normal remote, but the speech recognition also provides a more advanced alternative interface.
The speech recognition works as a finding mechanism as well.
The rubber case is yellow with grey or black, with buttons either made of plastic or rubber.
An extra button could activate/deactivate the voice recognition.
The prototype proved extremely over budget.
The main contributing factors were the solar cell and speech recognition.
One way to compensate for the loss of features, but still attract their target group, would be to add more colour to the design.
After the costing, the original prototype was evaluated on a scale of 1(excellent)-7(very bad).
The criteria used were fancifulness (2), technological innovation (2), ease of use (2.5), whether it is easy to find (1), sponginess (1.5), number of features (1).
Finally, the team evaluated the project process in terms of creativity (choices too narrow), leadership and teamwork (happy with it, but they missed communicating in between meetings), and means (SMARTboard was not satisfactory, but the digital pens were alright, but not too useful).
The delay in providing costs of components was criticised.
The prototype will have to be redesigned, so that it is compatible with the budget constraints..
The idea to include a solar cell as a power source had to be abandoned, due to the escalated costs.
The same happened with the speech recognition.
In order for the cost to come down to the original budget of 12.50, they also had to replace the rubber of the buttons with plastic and not use a curved design.
The prototype proved extremely over budget.
It would cost 22 euros.
The team thought all the changes to accommodate the budget requirements made a very dull device.
It was suggested that they go for a completely simple design so as to maximise the profit, although this was not what was asked in the project requirements.
The device cannot be a hi-tech, innovative one any more.
